Till sidans huvudinnehåll
Besök 1177.se, logga in för personliga e-tjänster eller ring 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning.
Logga inat 1177.se
Hitta vårdat 1177.se
Searchat 1177.se
Menu
Liv & hälsa
Barn & gravid
Olyckor & skador
Sjukdomar & besvär
Undersökning & behandling
Så fungerar vården
Start
Other languages - andra språk
Symtom/sjukdom - andra språk
Feber hos barn - engelska
Fever in children
Having a fever means that your body temperature is higher than usual. It is the body’s way of defending itself against infection. Children often get a fever.
Läs texten på svenskahär.
It is common to get a fever when, for example, you have a cold, cough or sore throat. Fever is common in children, especially young children.
A fever is considered to be a body temperature of 38°C or higher.
Fever is usually not serious. However, it can be serious if the fever is high.
What symptoms does a feverish child have?
The child will show one or more of the following symptoms:
The child’s body is warm.
The child is tired.
The child seems unhappy and irritable.
The child is sleeping more, or less, than usual.
The child is not eating or drinking as usual.
The child may become very cold and shiver as their body temperature rises. They may also break out in a sweat.
You can take your child’s temperature with a thermometer
Use a thermometer that measures body temperature.
The most accurate result is obtained by taking the child’s temperature in the ear or rectum. Use the rectal method if the child is younger than one.
Let the child rest for half an hour before taking their temperature.
You can purchase a thermometer at the pharmacy. Ask the staff for advice.
How to take the temperature in the ear
Use a thermometer that measures body temperature in the ear.
Cover the thermometer probe without touching the probe. Gently pull the ear up and back. Insert the thermometer straight into the ear.
Press the button and wait until the thermometer beeps. Now you can see your child’s temperature.
How to take the temperature in the rectum
Put some ointment, baby oil or cooking oil on the thermometer.
Insert the thermometer into the rectum.
For children younger than six months: only insert the tip of the thermometer.
For children older than six months: insert 1–2 cm of the thermometer.
It is important that the child is lying still when you take their temperature, otherwise it may cause pain.
Clean the thermometer afterwards.
Here you can see an instructional video on how to take the temperature in the ear.
Here you can see an instructional video on how to take the temperature in the ear.
What you can do to help your child
Encourage the child to be calm. However, it is not necessary that they lie down all the time.
Keep the child company.
Make sure that the child drinks more than usual.
Give the child food and drink that they enjoy. It is okay if the child eats less than usual for a few days.
Remove the child’s clothing or blankets if they get too warm. Open the window.
Put more clothing on the child or cover them with a blanket if they start to get cold.
When and where should I seek medical care?
Fever is a common condition and most people do not need to seek medical care when they have a fever.
Contact a healthcare clinic if your child’s fever lasts for more than four days.
A healthcare clinic can also be referred to as, for example, a GP surgery, a family doctor practice, or a healthcare centre.
When urgent medical care is required
You should contact a healthcare clinic immediately if any of the following apply:
The child has a temperature of 41°C or higher.
The child has a fever and seems very ill.
The child is younger than six months and has a fever.
The child has visited a tropical country, and now has a fever along with a headache or body pain.
Some healthcare clinics are open during evenings and weekends.
Seek care at the emergency department if the healthcare centre is closed or unable to receive you.
Finding a healthcare clinic
You can find a healthcare clinichere. The page shows a list of clinics and a map. The information is in Swedish.
Call 1177 if you need help
Call 1177 if you need help. They can tell you where to seek medical care, if necessary. The person who answers your call will be a nurse who speaks both Swedish and English. Sometimes it is possible to get help in other languages.
If you are calling from a phone with a foreign number, please dial 0046 771 11 77 00.
Share article
Share on facebook
Share on twitter
Share with a friend
Print page
Page Navigation
What symptoms does a feverish child have?
You can take your child’s temperature with a thermometer
What you can do to help your child
When and where should I seek medical care?
MORE CONTENT
English
You can read the content of 1177.se that is available in English here. The website 1177.se provides information about illnesses, care and health. The information has been fact-checked by doctors and other healthcare professionals.
1177 in other languages
Here you will find  a selection of  information about health and healthcare from 1177.se. The information is translated to several other languages.
1177
–tryggt om din hälsa och vård
På 1177.se får du råd om hälsa och information om sjukdomar och vilka mottagningar du kan kontakta. Logga in för att läsa din journal och göra dina vårdärenden. Ring telefonnummer 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning dygnet runt.1177 ger dig råd när du vill må bättre.
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Behandling av personuppgifter
Hantering av kakor
Inställningar för kakor
1177 – en tjänst frånInera.