Till sidans huvudinnehåll
Besök 1177.se, logga in för personliga e-tjänster eller ring 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning.
Logga inat 1177.se
Hitta vårdat 1177.se
Searchat 1177.se
Menu
Liv & hälsa
Barn & gravid
Olyckor & skador
Sjukdomar & besvär
Undersökning & behandling
Så fungerar vården
Start
Other languages - andra språk
Förlossning
Att lämna sjukhuset och första tiden efter en förlossning - engelska
Leaving hospital and the initial time period after childbirth
The length of stay in hospital after giving birth varies. It depends on the amount of care and help you and your baby need. Even if you have gone home with your baby, you can contact the hospital if you need to.
Läs texten på svenska här.
You can go home at the earliest after six hours
How long you stay in hospital depends on how you and the baby are feeling. It also depends on how much support you and your baby need.
You always need to stay in hospital at least six hours after the baby is born to give the healthcare staff time to make sure that you and your baby are doing well.
Some people need to stay for a few days.
If you go home early
It is more common to leave hospital early if you have had a baby before.
You may need to come back for examinations if you have gone home early.
Before you leave the hospital
Before you leave the hospital, the staff will find out how your baby is feeding. This could be howbreastfeedingis going or how formula feeding is going.
The staff are there to provide help and support if you need it.
The baby will be examined before you go home
The baby will be examined by a paediatrician before you go home.
Contact the BVC after you have been allowed to go home
Contact a children's health centre, BVC, after you have been allowed to go home.
At the BVC, you can ask any question you may have about babies, such as how to look after a baby and what it is like to be a parent. The nurse at the BVC will examine your baby to make sure they are healthy and developing as expected.
You can find alist of children’s health centres here. The information is in Swedish.
Examinations after you have been allowed to go home
After you have been allowed to go home, the baby will be examined at the BVC.
You will have an examination
Everyone who has given birth is given anappointment for a postnatal visit to a midwife. At the visit, the area in and around your vagina will be examined.
Some people may also need to be examined earlier, for example if they experiencedtearing or other injuriesduring childbirth.
You can get help with feeding your baby
You can get help with feeding your baby at the hospital where you gave birth, at the BVC or at a midwifery clinic. They can help you with breastfeeding or bottle feeding.
When and where should I seek medical care?
Contact your healthcare provider if any of the following applies to you:
Your baby is sick.
You are experiencing problems after giving birth.
You are worried about your baby’s health.
Seeking care during the first seven days after childbirth
If you or the baby need care within the first seven days of childbirth, do not hesitate to ask for help.
Contact the maternity ward or hospital where the baby was born. They are open 24 hours a day.
Seeking care after seven days
You can contact any of the following if you or your baby need care:
A children’s health centre, BVC, for the baby.
A midwifery clinic, for you.
A healthcare centre.
An out-of-hours service.
If you need urgent care
Seek care at an emergency department.
Call 1177 for advice
You can call the 1177 helpline if youneed adviceon what to do. Your call will be answered by a nurse. If needed, they can tell you where to go for treatment.
The nurse can speak both Swedish and English. Help is sometimes available in other languages.
Call 0046 771 11 77 00 if you are calling from a phone with a foreign number.
Share article
Share on facebook
Share on twitter
Share with a friend
Print page
Page Navigation
You can go home at the earliest after six hours
Before you leave the hospital
Contact the BVC after you have been allowed to go home
Examinations after you have been allowed to go home
You can get help with feeding your baby
When and where should I seek medical care?
More content in English
English
You can read the content of 1177.se that is available in English here. Choose a region at the top of the page to find out what applies to you.
1177 in other languages
Here is a list of other languages that the material is available in. The page is available in English.
1177
–tryggt om din hälsa och vård
På 1177.se får du råd om hälsa och information om sjukdomar och vilka mottagningar du kan kontakta. Logga in för att läsa din journal och göra dina vårdärenden. Ring telefonnummer 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning dygnet runt.1177 ger dig råd när du vill må bättre.
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Behandling av personuppgifter
Hantering av kakor
Inställningar för kakor
1177 – en tjänst frånInera.