Till sidans huvudinnehåll
Besök 1177.se, logga in för personliga e-tjänster eller ring 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning.
Logga inat 1177.se
Hitta vårdat 1177.se
Searchat 1177.se
Menu
Liv & hälsa
Barn & gravid
Olyckor & skador
Sjukdomar & besvär
Undersökning & behandling
Så fungerar vården
Start
Other languages - andra språk
Söka vård - engelska
Seek healthcare
Current articles
This is 1177Det här är 1177 - engelskaYou can call the 1177 helpline if you or someone in your family is ill. You can get advice from a nurse in English or Swedish. You can call any time of day. The website 1177.se provides information about health and illness.
This is 1177
You can call the 1177 helpline if you or someone in your family is ill. You can get advice from a nurse in English or Swedish. You can call any time of day. The website 1177.se provides information about health and illness.
How to buy medicines in SwedenSå köper du läkemedel i Sverige  - engelskaIn Sweden you need a prescription to buy some types of medicines. Find out more about how it works.
How to buy medicines in Sweden
In Sweden you need a prescription to buy some types of medicines. Find out more about how it works.
How healthcare works in SwedenSå fungerar vården i Sverige - engelskaIf you or someone in your family needs medical care, you can usually get help at a healthcare centre (vårdcentral) . Call 1177 if you are unsure where to seek care. You can choose to speak Swedish or English. The nurse who answers the 1177 helpline can also give you advice on what you can do yourself to feel better.
How healthcare works in Sweden
If you or someone in your family needs medical care, you can usually get help at a healthcare centre (vårdcentral) . Call 1177 if you are unsure where to seek care. You can choose to speak Swedish or English. The nurse who answers the 1177 helpline can also give you advice on what you can do yourself to feel better.
Healthcare in Sweden if you come from another countryVård i Sverige om du kommer från ett annat land - engelskaIn Sweden, you always have the right to emergency care. This is true even if you come from another country and become ill while you are in Sweden. How much you will have to pay depends, among other things, on which country you are from. In some cases, you have to pay the full cost yourself.
Healthcare in Sweden if you come from another country
In Sweden, you always have the right to emergency care. This is true even if you come from another country and become ill while you are in Sweden. How much you will have to pay depends, among other things, on which country you are from. In some cases, you have to pay the full cost yourself.
Care if you are an asylum seeker or do not have a permit to be in SwedenVård om du är asylsökande eller inte har tillstånd att vara i Sverige - engelskaIf you are an adult asylum seeker, you have a right to receive medical and dental care that is deemed as urgent. This also applies if you are in Sweden without a permit. If you are under the age of 18, you always have the right to medical and dental care.
Care if you are an asylum seeker or do not have a permit to be in Sweden
If you are an adult asylum seeker, you have a right to receive medical and dental care that is deemed as urgent. This also applies if you are in Sweden without a permit. If you are under the age of 18, you always have the right to medical and dental care.
More content in English
English
You can read the content of 1177.se that is available in English here. Choose a region at the top of the page to find out what applies to you.
1177 in other languages
Here is a list of other languages that the material is available in. The page is available in English.
1177
–tryggt om din hälsa och vård
På 1177.se får du råd om hälsa och information om sjukdomar och vilka mottagningar du kan kontakta. Logga in för att läsa din journal och göra dina vårdärenden. Ring telefonnummer 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning dygnet runt.1177 ger dig råd när du vill må bättre.
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Behandling av personuppgifter
Hantering av kakor
Inställningar för kakor
1177 – en tjänst frånInera.