Till sidans huvudinnehåll
Besök 1177.se, logga in för personliga e-tjänster eller ring 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning.
Logga inat 1177.se
Hitta vårdat 1177.se
Searchat 1177.se
Menu
Liv & hälsa
Barn & gravid
Olyckor & skador
Sjukdomar & besvär
Undersökning & behandling
Så fungerar vården
Start
Other languages - andra språk
Symtom/sjukdom - engelska
Symptom/disease
Current articles
HIV and AIDSHiv och aids - engelskaHIV is a virus that can spread between people and cause infection. If you have the virus, you may develop a condition called AIDS. There is treatment for HIV and AIDS.
HIV and AIDS
HIV is a virus that can spread between people and cause infection. If you have the virus, you may develop a condition called AIDS. There is treatment for HIV and AIDS.
MeaslesMässling - engelskaMeasles is a disease caused by a virus. Some people become seriously ill. The disease is rare in Sweden because the measles vaccine is included in the vaccination programme for children.
Measles
Measles is a disease caused by a virus. Some people become seriously ill. The disease is rare in Sweden because the measles vaccine is included in the vaccination programme for children.
Tuberculosis – TBTuberkulos – tbc - engelskaTuberculosis is a disease of the lungs. The disease causes coughing for several weeks. Most people recover completely with treatment.
Tuberculosis – TB
Tuberculosis is a disease of the lungs. The disease causes coughing for several weeks. Most people recover completely with treatment.
GastroenteritisMagsjuka - engelskaGastroenteritis is very common and usually passes quickly. You may feel nauseated, vomit and have diarrhoea. If you have gastroenteritis, it is important that you drink more than usual.
Gastroenteritis
Gastroenteritis is very common and usually passes quickly. You may feel nauseated, vomit and have diarrhoea. If you have gastroenteritis, it is important that you drink more than usual.
RSV in childrenRS-virus hos barn - engelskaRSV (respiratory syncytial virus) infections are very common. Most children who get it will have cold-like symptoms. Some children may become very ill and need hospital care.
RSV in children
RSV (respiratory syncytial virus) infections are very common. Most children who get it will have cold-like symptoms. Some children may become very ill and need hospital care.
Fever in childrenFeber hos barn - engelskaHaving a fever means that your body temperature is higher than usual. It is the body’s way of defending itself against infection. Children often get a fever.
Fever in children
Having a fever means that your body temperature is higher than usual. It is the body’s way of defending itself against infection. Children often get a fever.
Head liceLöss i håret - engelskaDoes it feel itchy on your scalp, which is the skin close to your hair? It could be due to lice. Lice are only spread through direct hair-to-hair contact. If you have lice, you should treat it as soon as possible. You do this yourself at home.
Head lice
Does it feel itchy on your scalp, which is the skin close to your hair? It could be due to lice. Lice are only spread through direct hair-to-hair contact. If you have lice, you should treat it as soon as possible. You do this yourself at home.
Bitten by a tickBiten av fästing - engelskaTicks are small insects that bite into the skin and suck blood. Remove any ticks that you find on your skin. Ticks can sometimes spread diseases. If you are bitten, you may need to seek medical care.
Bitten by a tick
Ticks are small insects that bite into the skin and suck blood. Remove any ticks that you find on your skin. Ticks can sometimes spread diseases. If you are bitten, you may need to seek medical care.
1177
–tryggt om din hälsa och vård
På 1177.se får du råd om hälsa och information om sjukdomar och vilka mottagningar du kan kontakta. Logga in för att läsa din journal och göra dina vårdärenden. Ring telefonnummer 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning dygnet runt.1177 ger dig råd när du vill må bättre.
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Behandling av personuppgifter
Hantering av kakor
Inställningar för kakor
1177 – en tjänst frånInera.