Till sidans huvudinnehåll
Besök 1177.se, logga in för personliga e-tjänster eller ring 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning.
Logga inat 1177.se
Hitta vårdat 1177.se
Searchat 1177.se
Menu
Liv & hälsa
Barn & gravid
Olyckor & skador
Sjukdomar & besvär
Undersökning & behandling
Så fungerar vården
Start
Other languages - andra språk
Att ta hand om barn
Barnavårdscentralen, BVC - engelska
Children's health centre (Barnavårdscentralen, BVC)
A children's health centre is a clinic for children up to the age of six. At this clinic, staff check the health and development of the child. You can ask questions about everything related to children and parenting.
A children's health centre is often referred to as a BVC.
Visits to the BVC are voluntary and free of charge.
All parents are welcome.
Läs texten på svenska här.
How do I contact the BVC?
The BVC is usually located in a healthcare centre.
You can search for aBVC here. The information is in Swedish.
The BVC usually contacts a parent directly.
You can visit in person, call or email
The most common way to contact the BVC is to visit or call.
Some BVCs also offer the option of a video call.
What is the BVC?
The BVC handles everything related to the health and development of your child.
The BVC follows a programme that applies to all children throughout the country.
At the BVC, you will meet with a nurse.
On some visits, you will also meet with a doctor.
Visits at different ages
The visits take place from the time the child is born until they are six years old.
Do not visit the BVC when your child is sick
Do not visit the BVC if your child has an infection.
For example, if they have a stomach bug or a cold.
In such cases, you should contact a healthcare centre (vårdcentral) instead.
You can search for ahealthcare centre here. The information is in Swedish.
Call 1177 for advice
Call 1177for helpon what to do.
Your call will be answered by a nurse.
If needed, they can tell you where to go for treatment.
The nurses speak Swedish and English.
Help is sometimes available in other languages.
Call 0046 771-11 77 00 if you are calling from a phone with a foreign number.
What happens at the BVC?
Here are some examples of what happens at a BVC:
The staff go over what care and vaccinations the child has received.
The child receives their vaccinations.
The nurse or doctor examines the child.
The nurse measures and weighs the child.
You receive support and advice on the health and development of your child.
You can ask questions about your child and being a parent.
The visits focus on your needs
You will talk about topics such as:
Your child's health.
Your child's development.
How well things are working between parent and child.
How well the child is eating and sleeping.
The child participates in the visits
The child should be involved in the conversation.
It is important that the child is allowed to express what they think.
The child will be asked to perform different tasks
Sometimes the child is asked to perform different tasks.This is done to see whether the child is developing as expected.
The tasks that the child is asked to perform are determined by their age.
For example, they may be asked to draw, kick a ball, or thread beads on a string.
When the child receives their vaccinations
The child will receive their vaccinations according to theSwedish vaccination programme.
Ask the staff if you have any questions about vaccination.
You can get help from an interpreter
You can get help from aninterpreterif you do not speak Swedish. Let the clinic know you need an interpreter when you book your appointment.
Share article
Share on facebook
Share on twitter
Share with a friend
Print page
Page Navigation
How do I contact the BVC?
What is the BVC?
Do not visit the BVC when your child is sick
What happens at the BVC?
When the child receives their vaccinations
You can get help from an interpreter
More content in English
English
You can read the content of 1177.se that is available in English here. Choose a region at the top of the page to find out what applies to you.
1177 in other languages
Here is a list of other languages that the material is available in. The page is available in English.
1177
–tryggt om din hälsa och vård
På 1177.se får du råd om hälsa och information om sjukdomar och vilka mottagningar du kan kontakta. Logga in för att läsa din journal och göra dina vårdärenden. Ring telefonnummer 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning dygnet runt.1177 ger dig råd när du vill må bättre.
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Behandling av personuppgifter
Hantering av kakor
Inställningar för kakor
1177 – en tjänst frånInera.