Till sidans huvudinnehåll
Besök 1177.se, logga in för personliga e-tjänster eller ring 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning.
Logga inat 1177.se
Hitta vårdat 1177.se
Searchat 1177.se
Menu
Liv & hälsa
Barn & gravid
Olyckor & skador
Sjukdomar & besvär
Undersökning & behandling
Så fungerar vården
Start
Other languages - andra språk
Förlossning
När ska jag åka till förlossningsavdelningen? - engelska
When should I go to the maternity ward?
During the early stage of labour, it is most common to stay home. When the contractions become stronger and more frequent, it is time to go to the hospital maternity ward.
Läs texten på svenska här.
A maternity ward is a hospital ward for people who are giving birth.
All maternity wards are open 24 hours a day.
Call before you go
Call before you go to the maternity ward.
That way, they can be prepared for your arrival.
The midwife (barnmorska) you speak to will be able to give you advice. Sometimes it is better to stay at home for a while longer.
Where do I call?
You can find maternity wards throughout Sweden here. The information is in Swedish.
You can call the1177 helplineif you are not sure which maternity ward to contact. The nurse answering the helpline can speak both Swedish and English. Help is sometimes available in other languages.
Call +46 771 11 77 00 if you are calling from a phone with a foreign number.
If you go to a midwifery clinic, they will give you information on where to call.
The maternity ward of your choice may be full. In such case, you will have to go to another one.
When should I go to the maternity ward?
You may need to go to the maternity ward if any of the following apply:
The contractions are regular and very painful. The contractions come 2–3 minutes apart.
Each contraction lasts about one minute.
You have given birth previously. In such case, labour may progress more quickly.
You must travel a long way to get to the maternity ward.
Amniotic fluid has come out of your vagina. This is especially true if the fluid smells bad, and is brown or brownish.
There is blood coming out of your vagina.
You have pain all the time.
Your contractions are not severe, but have been going on for a long time. You may need medicine to help you rest and regain your strength.
When are you allowed to stay?
At the maternity ward, you will be seen by a midwife.
If your labour is well underway, you will be examined.
The midwife may, for example, examine inside your vagina to see how much your cervix has opened.
You may need to go home again if the midwife thinks it will be a while before the baby is born. This is common.
What can you do at home?
Here are some tips on what you can do at home:
Rest and take it easy.
Eat and drink to keep your energy levels up.
Use medicine containing paracetamol if you are in pain.
Use massage and heat if you are in pain. For example, you can take a hot shower.
To bring with you
You do not need to bring anything with you to the maternity ward. They have everything that you need there.
But many people pack a bag with a few of their belongings.
Here are some examples of what you can bring with you:
clothes for you and the baby
something good to eat
toothbrush, hairbrush and other hygiene items.
Share article
Share on facebook
Share on twitter
Share with a friend
Print page
Page Navigation
Call before you go
When should I go to the maternity ward?
When are you allowed to stay?
What can you do at home?
To bring with you
More content in English
English
You can read the content of 1177.se that is available in English here. Choose a region at the top of the page to find out what applies to you.
1177 in other languages
Here is a list of other languages that the material is available in. The page is available in English.
1177
–tryggt om din hälsa och vård
På 1177.se får du råd om hälsa och information om sjukdomar och vilka mottagningar du kan kontakta. Logga in för att läsa din journal och göra dina vårdärenden. Ring telefonnummer 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning dygnet runt.1177 ger dig råd när du vill må bättre.
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Behandling av personuppgifter
Hantering av kakor
Inställningar för kakor
1177 – en tjänst frånInera.