Till sidans huvudinnehåll
Besök 1177.se, logga in för personliga e-tjänster eller ring 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning.
Logga inat 1177.se
Hitta vårdat 1177.se
Searchat 1177.se
Menu
Liv & hälsa
Barn & gravid
Olyckor & skador
Sjukdomar & besvär
Undersökning & behandling
Så fungerar vården
Start
Other languages - andra språk
Söka vård - andra språk
Vård om du är asylsökande eller inte har tillstånd att vara i Sverige - engelska
Care if you are an asylum seeker or do not have a permit to be in Sweden
If you are an adult asylum seeker, you have a right to receive medical and dental care that is deemed as urgent. This also applies if you are in Sweden without a permit. If you are under the age of 18, you always have the right to medical and dental care.
Care that is deemed as urgent includes, for example, being fitted with a plaster cast if you break your leg.
Läs texten på svenska här.
How do I seek care?
If you or someone in your family needs medical care, you can usually get help at a healthcare centre (vårdcentral). It may also be called a health centre (hälsocentral), a GP surgery (husläkarmottagning) or a doctor’s office (familjeläkarmottagning).
If you are unsure where to seek care
You can always call 1177 if you are unsure where to seek care. You can choose to speak Swedish or English.
The nurse who answers the 1177 helpline can also give you advice on what you can do to make yourself feel better.
Read more about how healthcare works in Sweden.
LMA card if you are an asylum seeker
When you seek asylum, you will receive a special card from the Swedish Migration Agency (Migrationsverket). This is called an LMA card. You must present the card when you seek care.
Children also receive an LMA card when they seek asylum.
What should I do if I come from Ukraine?
Register with the Swedish Migration Agency if you are a refugee from Ukraine. You will then get the same medical and dental care as people seeking asylum.
You will also be offered a health check.
Present your UT card when you seek care
You will receive a special card when you register with the Swedish Migration Agency. This is called a UT card. You must present the card when you seek care. This applies to both children and adults.
Everyone over the age of 12 is offered freevaccination against COVID-19.
If you are not registered with the Swedish Migration Agency
If you are not registered with the Swedish Migration Agency, you can receive emergency care, but will have to pay for it yourself.
How much does healthcare cost?
There is no charge for healthcare for children up to the age of 18. This applies to both children seeking asylum and children who do not have a permit to be in Sweden. There may sometimes be a charge for children seeking care at an emergency department.
Adults pay for care
If you are aged 18 or older, you pay a fee for medical and dental care.
Examples of healthcare costs
Visiting a doctor at a healthcare centre costs a maximum of SEK 50.
Visiting a dentist costs SEK 50. This applies to dental care that is urgent.
Prescription medicines cost a maximum of SEK 50. However, some medicines, such as cough medicines, cost the full price.
Examples of healthcare that is free of charge
Visits to a midwifery clinic.
Maternity care.
Visits to a children's healthcare centre (BVC).
Free health check for adults and children
All adults and children seeking asylum in Sweden are offered a health check. This is free of charge.
If you are in Sweden without a permit, you will be offered a health check when you seek healthcare. You will not have to pay for this.
Ask for an interpreter to get help in your language
You may be entitled to an interpreter if you do not speak Swedish. The interpreter is sworn to secrecy. You will not have to pay for assistance by an interpreter. Contact your healthcare clinic to arrange help in your language before your visit.
Share article
Share on facebook
Share on twitter
Share with a friend
Print page
Page Navigation
How do I seek care?
LMA card if you are an asylum seeker
What should I do if I come from Ukraine?
How much does healthcare cost?
Free health check for adults and children
Ask for an interpreter to get help in your language
More content in English
English
You can read the content of 1177.se that is available in English here. Choose a region at the top of the page to find out what applies to you.
1177 in other languages
Here is a list of other languages that the material is available in. The page is available in English.
1177
–tryggt om din hälsa och vård
På 1177.se får du råd om hälsa och information om sjukdomar och vilka mottagningar du kan kontakta. Logga in för att läsa din journal och göra dina vårdärenden. Ring telefonnummer 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning dygnet runt.1177 ger dig råd när du vill må bättre.
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Behandling av personuppgifter
Hantering av kakor
Inställningar för kakor
1177 – en tjänst frånInera.