Till sidans huvudinnehåll
Besök 1177.se, logga in för personliga e-tjänster eller ring 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning.
Logga inat 1177.se
Hitta vårdat 1177.se
Searchat 1177.se
Menu
Liv & hälsa
Barn & gravid
Olyckor & skador
Sjukdomar & besvär
Undersökning & behandling
Så fungerar vården
Start
Other languages - andra språk
Förlossning
Att träna och röra på sig efter förlossningen - engelska
Exercise and physical activity after pregnancy
Being pregnant and having a baby affects your body. After giving birth, your body needs to heal. Once your body has healed, it is a good idea to exercise. This video shows five exercises you can do.
Läs texten på svenska här.The exercises are suitable whether you have given birth vaginally or by Caesarean section.
Exercise after childbirth
Exercise after childbirth
After giving birth, your body needs to heal
As soon as the baby has come out ofyourwomb,yourbodywill startto recover and heal.Your pelvic area needs to heal if you have given birth vaginally. Your stomach area needs to heal if you had a Caesarean section.Healing usually takes 6–8 weeks. But it can take up to a year foryourbody to fully recover. During this time, exercise and physical activity can be helpful.
Take it easy at first
The first few days after giving birth, it is a good idea to move around a bit. For example, you can change position and alternate between sitting, standing and walking.After a few days, you can start to move around a bit more. You may be able to take walks.You can also exercise the muscles in your pelvic floor. You can start right after giving birth. Squeeze and tense your muscles. Start off lightly. After about three to four weeks, you can intensify the activity. Only tense your muscles for short periods and relax them in between.
Time to start exercising
After 6–8 weeks, you can start to exercise.
If you are a beginner, start without weights and use only your own body weight. As you feel ready and able, you can add weights and then increase the weight of these.The video shows five exercises you can do several times a week.The video covers the following exercises:
Squat with chair.
Pressing your arms against the wall.
Supine pelvic lift.
Supine knee raise.
Side hip raise.
These exercises are suitable whether you are physically fit or not. Choose the exercises that suit you.
Why it is good to exercise
There are many reasons why it is good to exercise after pregnancy and childbirth.Here are some examples of things that may improve if you exercise:
You may recover faster after giving birth.
You may feel more energetic.
You may sleep better.
You may have less stomach discomfort.
You may have less anxiety and depression.
You may have less back pain.
Your body may feel stronger, enabling you to do more.
Share article
Share on facebook
Share on twitter
Share with a friend
Print page
Page Navigation
After giving birth, your body needs to heal
Take it easy at first
Time to start exercising
Why it is good to exercise
More content in English
English
You can read the content of 1177.se that is available in English here. Choose a region at the top of the page to find out what applies to you.
1177 in other languages
Here is a list of other languages that the material is available in. The page is available in English.
1177
–tryggt om din hälsa och vård
På 1177.se får du råd om hälsa och information om sjukdomar och vilka mottagningar du kan kontakta. Logga in för att läsa din journal och göra dina vårdärenden. Ring telefonnummer 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning dygnet runt.1177 ger dig råd när du vill må bättre.
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Behandling av personuppgifter
Hantering av kakor
Inställningar för kakor
1177 – en tjänst frånInera.