Till sidans huvudinnehåll
Besök 1177.se, logga in för personliga e-tjänster eller ring 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning.
Logga inat 1177.se
Hitta vårdat 1177.se
Searchat 1177.se
Menu
Liv & hälsa
Barn & gravid
Olyckor & skador
Sjukdomar & besvär
Undersökning & behandling
Så fungerar vården
Start
Other languages - andra språk
Graviditet - andra språk
Tobak och graviditet - engelska
Tobacco and pregnancy
It is harmful to use tobacco when you are pregnant. The harmful substances found in tobacco will travel to the baby in your womb. You should therefore avoid using tobacco when you are pregnant. If you find it difficult to stop, you can get help. Tobacco is found in products such as cigarettes.
You should also avoid tobacco if you are trying to get pregnant.Tobacco can make it harder to get pregnant.
Du kan läsa textenpå svenska här.
Self-help tips
Anyone can stop using tobacco. The most important thing is that you want to stop.Remember that cravings for tobacco usually only last a few minutes.
It is often easier to stop during pregnancy. You may be motivated by wanting your baby to be as healthy as possible.
Pregnancy may also curb your craving for tobacco.
Different kinds of tobacco products
Examples of tobacco products include cigarettes, hookah, e-cigarettes and snus, which you put under your lip. All of these contain harmful substances, such as nicotine.
E-cigarettes are available without nicotine. But there are other substances in e-cigarettes that can be harmful. That is why you should also avoid e-cigarettes during pregnancy.
What happens in your body?
Tobacco contains harmful substances.
When you use tobacco, these harmful substances enter your bloodstream. Your blood passes into the placenta. From the placenta, the harmful substances enter the baby’s body.
The impact of tobacco
Here is what could happen if you use tobacco when you are pregnant:
The risk of miscarriage may increase.
The baby may not grow properly.
The placenta may detach prematurely.
Labour may start prematurely.
Tobacco can increase the risk of the baby dying in the womb or in the first six months after birth.
Think of the future
You may feel bad if you have used tobacco while pregnant. It is common to feel some shame and guilt.
The most important thing is not to expose your baby to more tobacco. Think about how to make things as good as possible from now on.
When and where should I seek treatment?
Seek treatment if you need help to stop using tobacco.
You can contact one of these clinics:• A midwifery clinic (barnmorskemottagning).• A healthcare centre (vårdcentral).
Get help from an interpreter
You can get help from an interpreter if you do not speak Swedish. Let the clinic know you need an interpreter when you book your appointment.
Call 1177 for advice
Call 1177 for help on what to do.Your call will be answered by a nurse. The nurse can speak both Swedish and English. Help is sometimes available in other languages.Call +46 771 11 77 00 if you are calling from a phone with a foreign number.
Treatment
Nicotine gum or patches are available. They reduce the craving for tobacco. But such medicines are harmful to the baby.
Talk to a doctor if you need to use medicines with nicotine when you are pregnant or breastfeeding.
Share article
Share on facebook
Share on twitter
Share with a friend
Print page
Page Navigation
Self-help tips
Different kinds of tobacco products
What happens in your body?
The impact of tobacco
Think of the future
When and where should I seek treatment?
Treatment
More content in English
English
You can read the content of 1177.se that is available in English here. Choose a region at the top of the page to find out what applies to you.
1177 in other languages
Here is a list of other languages that the material is available in. The page is available in English.
1177
–tryggt om din hälsa och vård
På 1177.se får du råd om hälsa och information om sjukdomar och vilka mottagningar du kan kontakta. Logga in för att läsa din journal och göra dina vårdärenden. Ring telefonnummer 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning dygnet runt.1177 ger dig råd när du vill må bättre.
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Behandling av personuppgifter
Hantering av kakor
Inställningar för kakor
1177 – en tjänst frånInera.