Till sidans huvudinnehåll
Besök 1177.se, logga in för personliga e-tjänster eller ring 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning.
Logga inat 1177.se
Hitta vårdat 1177.se
Searchat 1177.se
Menu
Liv & hälsa
Barn & gravid
Olyckor & skador
Sjukdomar & besvär
Undersökning & behandling
Så fungerar vården
Start
Other languages - andra språk
Förlossning
Förlossningsavdelningen - hit kommer du när du ska föda barn - engelska
Maternity ward – where you go when it is time to give birth
When you are due to give birth, you can go to a maternity ward. There, you will be met by a midwife (barnmorska) and examined. You will be given your own room.
Du kan läsa texten påsvenska här.
A maternity ward is a hospital ward for people who are giving birth.
You can go there when you are due to give birth.
You can bring along your partner or another close person in your life.
Read moreabout how to contact the maternity ward.
Who works there?
The maternity ward is staffed with midwives. They are specialists in childbirth.
The midwife usually works together with someone else. This may be an assistant nurse or another midwife.
Doctors who specialise in childbirth also work in the ward. They assist when needed.
What happens when you arrive at the maternity ward?
You will first meet with a midwife.
They will ask you how you are feeling.
The midwife will determine whether your labour is well underway.
If so, you will stay at the maternity ward.
If your labour is not far enough along, the midwife may ask you to go home and come back later.
You will be given your own room
Your room will have a special bed.
It will also usually have comfortable furniture to sit on.
Usually, the room will be equipped with nitrous oxide, which is also called laughing gas. You can use this when you are in pain.
There is often a shower or bathtub in the ward.
You will talk about your birth
The midwife will ask questions about what you want the birth process to be like.
For example, you will talk about what body position you want to be in while giving birth.
The midwife will check how your baby is doing
The midwife will feel and press on your stomach.

They do this to examine how the baby is positioned in the womb.

The midwife will also feel inside your vagina to check whether your cervix has opened.

The cervix needs to be soft and open for the baby to be able to come out.
Two transducers will be placed on your stomach
The midwife will measure your baby’s heart rate with a monitoring device called a CTG.This is a good way to find out how your baby is doing.
The device is connected to two transducers that the midwife attaches to your stomach.
These are held in place with a belt.
The device also measures when the uterus tightens during a contraction.
Taking this measurement will not affect the baby.
When the baby is born
You may stay in hospital for a while after the baby is born.
How long you stay depends on how you and the baby are feeling.
It is more common to leave hospital early if you have had a baby before.
In such case, you will come in for a visit after a few days.
Sometimes you and the baby will go to a BB ward
If you need to stay for a while after giving birth, you will be transferred to another type of maternity ward.
This is called the BB ward.
There, you can get help for the first few days after giving birth.
For example, you can get help with breastfeeding.
The BB ward is staffed with midwives, assistant nurses and doctors.
If others want to come and visit or stay overnight
Sometimes your partner or the person who was with you at the birth can stay with you.
Relatives and siblings of the baby are usually allowed to visit.
The baby will be examined before you go home
The baby will be examined by a paediatrician before you and the baby go home.
You can get help from an interpreter
You can get help from an interpreter if you do not speak Swedish.
Share article
Share on facebook
Share on twitter
Share with a friend
Print page
Page Navigation
Who works there?
What happens when you arrive at the maternity ward?
The midwife will check how your baby is doing
When the baby is born
You can get help from an interpreter
More content in English
English
You can read the content of 1177.se that is available in English here. Choose a region at the top of the page to find out what applies to you.
1177 in other languages
Here is a list of other languages that the material is available in. The page is available in English.
1177
–tryggt om din hälsa och vård
På 1177.se får du råd om hälsa och information om sjukdomar och vilka mottagningar du kan kontakta. Logga in för att läsa din journal och göra dina vårdärenden. Ring telefonnummer 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning dygnet runt.1177 ger dig råd när du vill må bättre.
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Behandling av personuppgifter
Hantering av kakor
Inställningar för kakor
1177 – en tjänst frånInera.