Till sidans huvudinnehåll
Besök 1177.se, logga in för personliga e-tjänster eller ring 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning.
Logga inat 1177.se
Hitta vårdat 1177.se
Searchat 1177.se
Menu
Liv & hälsa
Barn & gravid
Olyckor & skador
Sjukdomar & besvär
Undersökning & behandling
Så fungerar vården
Start
Other languages - andra språk
Att ta hand om barn - engelska
Taking care of a child
Content - Taking care of a child
Examinations of your newborn babyA newborn baby is examined in a number of different ways during its first few days of life. Most of the examinations are done in hospital before you go home. You may need to come back for examinations if you have gone home early.
Examinations of your newborn baby
A newborn baby is examined in a number of different ways during its first few days of life. Most of the examinations are done in hospital before you go home. You may need to come back for examinations if you have gone home early.
BreastfeedingBreastfeeding gives your baby food, closeness and security. But it can take time to get breastfeeding to work smoothly. Help is available.
Breastfeeding
Breastfeeding gives your baby food, closeness and security. But it can take time to get breastfeeding to work smoothly. Help is available.
Common breastfeeding problemsIt is common to experience breast discomfort when you first start breastfeeding. This will often pass after a while. Sometimes treatment is needed.
Common breastfeeding problems
It is common to experience breast discomfort when you first start breastfeeding. This will often pass after a while. Sometimes treatment is needed.
Infant formula and follow-on formulaBabies who do not receive breast milk need to be given infant formula. This is made to resemble breast milk. When the baby starts to eat regular food, they can be given what is known as follow-on formula instead.
Infant formula and follow-on formula
Babies who do not receive breast milk need to be given infant formula. This is made to resemble breast milk. When the baby starts to eat regular food, they can be given what is known as follow-on formula instead.
How to reduce the risk of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS)Sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) is when a baby stops breathing and dies, usually during sleep. It is very rare. The best way to reduce the risk is for the baby to sleep on their back.
How to reduce the risk of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS)
Sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) is when a baby stops breathing and dies, usually during sleep. It is very rare. The best way to reduce the risk is for the baby to sleep on their back.
Vaccination programme for childrenAll children in Sweden are offered vaccination against 12 diseases. This is done to protect the child from becoming seriously ill. These vaccinations are offered free of charge.
Vaccination programme for children
All children in Sweden are offered vaccination against 12 diseases. This is done to protect the child from becoming seriously ill. These vaccinations are offered free of charge.
Children's health centre (Barnavårdscentralen, BVC)A children's health centre is a clinic for children up to the age of six. At this clinic, staff check the health and development of the child. You can ask questions about everything related to children and parenting.
Children's health centre (Barnavårdscentralen, BVC)
A children's health centre is a clinic for children up to the age of six. At this clinic, staff check the health and development of the child. You can ask questions about everything related to children and parenting.
1177
–tryggt om din hälsa och vård
På 1177.se får du råd om hälsa och information om sjukdomar och vilka mottagningar du kan kontakta. Logga in för att läsa din journal och göra dina vårdärenden. Ring telefonnummer 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning dygnet runt.1177 ger dig råd när du vill må bättre.
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Behandling av personuppgifter
Hantering av kakor
Inställningar för kakor
1177 – en tjänst frånInera.