Till sidans huvudinnehåll
Besök 1177.se, logga in för personliga e-tjänster eller ring 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning.
Logga inat 1177.se
Hitta vårdat 1177.se
Searchat 1177.se
Menu
Liv & hälsa
Barn & gravid
Olyckor & skador
Sjukdomar & besvär
Undersökning & behandling
Så fungerar vården
Start
Other languages - andra språk
Att ta hand om barn
Så minskar du risken för plötslig spädbarnsdöd - engelska
How to reduce the risk of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS)
Sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) is when a baby stops breathing and dies, usually during sleep. It is very rare. The best way to reduce the risk is for the baby to sleep on their back.
It is common for babies to take small pauses in their breathing.
Sometimes, it can be a pause of several seconds.
This is perfectly natural and does not lead to sudden infant death syndrome.
Läs textenpå svenska här.
What is SIDS?
Sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) is when a baby stops breathing and dies unexpectedly. It is most common when the baby is asleep.
The baby usually does not show any signs of feeling unwell beforehand.
SIDS usually happens before the baby is six months old.
It is very rare
In Sweden, it is very rare for babies to die from SIDS.
Itis not entirely clear what causes SIDS.
But there are some things you can do to reduce the risk. You can read about these below.
Let your baby sleep on their back
The most important piece of advice is that your baby should sleep on their back. This may help because it is easier to get air.
The baby should not sleep on their stomach.
It is not safe for the baby to sleep on their side, as they could roll over onto their stomach.
When the baby is able to roll over onto their side or stomach
The risk of SIDS decreases as the baby gets older.
The risk of SIDS is lower when the baby is able to roll over in their sleep.
Do not smoke
Nicotine and smoking are harmful to the baby. They also increase the risk of SIDS.This is true both when you are pregnant and after the baby is born.
Nicotine can be found in products such as cigarettes, hookah, e-cigarettes and snus, which you put under your lip.
If you are breastfeeding, the nicotine is passed on to the baby.
Try to stop smoking
It is a good idea for everyone around your baby to try to stop smoking. Reduce smoking as much as possible if you cannot quit completely.
Contact a healthcare centre (vårdcentral) or a children's health centre (barnavårdscentral) if you would like help to stop smoking.
Make sure nothing is near your baby's face
If your baby's face is covered with something,it will be harder for them to breathe.Make sure there are no blankets, pillows, stuffed animals or other objects near your baby's face.
It is also a good idea to make sure your baby is not too warm.
Your baby needs to be able to move around while sleeping.
The safest place for a baby to sleep is in their own bed
Children under the age of three months sleep safest in their own bed in the same room as you.
If you sleep in the same bed, an arm or bedding could end up covering the baby's face.
It is also easier for the baby to end up on their side or stomach.
Move the baby over to their own bed
Your baby can be with you while you breastfeed or bottle-feed. Then place the baby on their back in their own bed.
If your baby falls asleep somewhere else, you can move them over to their own bed.
Do not drink alcohol
Your baby will be affected if you drink alcohol or use sedatives.
Here are some things that could happen:
You will find it harder to wake up if your baby needs you.
You might not notice if your baby is not getting air.
You might accidentally lie on top of your baby.
Your baby may end up on their stomach or their side.
Share article
Share on facebook
Share on twitter
Share with a friend
Print page
Page Navigation
What is SIDS?
Let your baby sleep on their back
Do not smoke
Make sure nothing is near your baby's face
The safest place for a baby to sleep is in their own bed
Do not drink alcohol
More content in English
English
You can read the content of 1177.se that is available in English here. Choose a region at the top of the page to find out what applies to you.
1177 in other languages
Here is a list of other languages that the material is available in. The page is available in English.
1177
–tryggt om din hälsa och vård
På 1177.se får du råd om hälsa och information om sjukdomar och vilka mottagningar du kan kontakta. Logga in för att läsa din journal och göra dina vårdärenden. Ring telefonnummer 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning dygnet runt.1177 ger dig råd när du vill må bättre.
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Behandling av personuppgifter
Hantering av kakor
Inställningar för kakor
1177 – en tjänst frånInera.