Till sidans huvudinnehåll
Besök 1177.se, logga in för personliga e-tjänster eller ring 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning.
Logga inat 1177.se
Hitta vårdat 1177.se
Searchat 1177.se
Menu
Liv & hälsa
Barn & gravid
Olyckor & skador
Sjukdomar & besvär
Undersökning & behandling
Så fungerar vården
Start
Other languages - andra språk
Regler och rättigheter - andra språk
Tolkning till mitt språk - engelska
Interpretation into my language
You can get help from an interpreter if you do not speak Swedish. The interpreter will help you by translating what is said when you visit healthcare or dental services. Let the clinic know you need an interpreter who speaks your language when you book your appointment.
You will not have to pay for assistance by an interpreter.
Läs textenpå svenska här.
What does an interpreter do?
An interpreter translates what the healthcare professional says, so that you can understand. The interpreter speaks both Swedish and your language.
The interpreter can translate any questions you may have. The interpreter will then translate the healthcare professional’s answers into your language.
An interpreter does not usually translate written text.
This is how an appointment with an interpreter might work
Here are some examples of how an interpreter may assist you during a meeting:
The interpreter is physically present at the meeting with the healthcare professional.
The interpreter participates in the meeting through a speakerphone.
You, the healthcare professional and the interpreter are in contact via a camera and computer. This is called video interpreting.
Ask the healthcare professional how interpretation will be set up when you book your appointment.
The interpreter is sworn to secrecy
An interpreter is sworn to secrecy. This means that the interpreter is not allowed to share any information about you without your permission.
Sometimes family or friends may want to help to interpret. This can sometimes lead to misunderstandings. In addition, they are not sworn to secrecy. It is therefore better to get help from a person who works as an interpreter.
Share article
Share on facebook
Share on twitter
Share with a friend
Print page
Page Navigation
What does an interpreter do?
This is how an appointment with an interpreter might work
The interpreter is sworn to secrecy
More content in English
English
You can read the content of 1177.se that is available in English here. Choose a region at the top of the page to find out what applies to you.
1177 in other languages
Here is a list of other languages that the material is available in. The page is available in English.
1177
–tryggt om din hälsa och vård
På 1177.se får du råd om hälsa och information om sjukdomar och vilka mottagningar du kan kontakta. Logga in för att läsa din journal och göra dina vårdärenden. Ring telefonnummer 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning dygnet runt.1177 ger dig råd när du vill må bättre.
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Behandling av personuppgifter
Hantering av kakor
Inställningar för kakor
1177 – en tjänst frånInera.