Till sidans huvudinnehåll
Besök 1177.se, logga in för personliga e-tjänster eller ring 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning.
Logga inat 1177.se
Hitta vårdat 1177.se
Searchat 1177.se
Menu
Liv & hälsa
Barn & gravid
Olyckor & skador
Sjukdomar & besvär
Undersökning & behandling
Så fungerar vården
Start
Other languages - andra språk
Graviditet - andra språk
Vanliga besvär under en graviditet - engelska
Common discomforts during pregnancy
When you are pregnant, your body is affected in different ways. This may give rise to different discomforts, which will usually disappear after you give birth.
This text covers some of the most common discomforts.
Läs texten på svenska här.
Nausea is common
Many people have what is called morning sickness, which means theyfeel nauseousduring pregnancy. Some vomit.
You may be very tired
Fatigue is common during pregnancy.
This fatigue may be due to anaemia, which is when you do not have enough healthy red blood cells. Your midwife will therefore check your blood count when you visit the midwifery clinic. You may need to take iron tablets if your blood count is too low.
You may have stomach pain
Your stomach may hurt for various reasons. The uterus isgrowingand the baby is moving. You may also be havingBraxton Hicks contractions.
You may have pelvic and back pain
The ligaments in your body relax and stretch during pregnancy, which can putastrain on your joints. You mayfeel painin your pelvic area and in your lower back.
You may catch a cold more easily
During pregnancy, your immune system becomes weaker. This may make it easier for you to catch a cold.
Your breasts may feel tender
Breasts grow early in pregnancy as they prepare to produce milk.
This may make your breasts feel sore and taut throughout your pregnancy.
Vaginal discharge
It is common to have more discharge when you are pregnant. Discharge is a fluid that comes out of your vagina.
You may have trouble sleeping
It is common to have trouble sleeping during pregnancy. For example, it may be hard to find a comfortable position in bed. Some people need to get up frequently to pee.
Leg cramps
Some people may wake up with cramps in their legs. This can cause a lot of pain for a short time. It is not a serious problem.
Standing up may help. You can also try massaging the muscle.
You may get a stuffy nose and nosebleeds
You have more fluid in your body during pregnancy. This makes your mucous membranes swollen, and may make it easier to bleed.
For example, you may get a nosebleed. A stuffy nose is also a common discomfort.
Sleep with your head elevated
Try sleeping with your head elevated if you have a stuffy nose.
You can also try using saline in your nose. This is available at any pharmacy.
Avoid using non-prescription nose drops for more than ten days.
Your legs and feet may become swollen
Legs and feet often become swollen during late pregnancy. Compression socks may help ease this.
Also try to keep your legs elevated.
Changes to your skin
Some people develop stretch marks, which look like little lines in the skin. They do not go away, but they may fade after pregnancy.
You may feel sad
Pregnancy may affect your mood. Some people get sad more easily than usual or feel sad all the time.
Talk to a midwife about how you are feeling.
You may feel dizzy
In early pregnancy, your blood pressure may drop. You may then feel dizzy.
Later in your pregnancy, your blood pressure will usually be back to normal.
Your midwife will check your blood pressure regularly.
Constipation
Constipation is common during pregnancy. This is because your intestines are working more slowly. Remember to drink water and keep active.
Examples of other common discomforts
Here are some additional discomforts that are common during pregnancy:
back pain
varicose veins
haemorrhoids
heartburn
heart palpitations
shortness of breath
urinary tract infection.
When and where should I seek medical care?
If you are worried or have questions, you can contact a midwifery clinic.
If you need urgent care
If you have a lot of stomach pain, contact a healthcare provider immediately.
Contact one of these clinics:
An emergency department if the condition occurs during the first half of your pregnancy.
A maternity ward if the condition occurs during the second half of your pregnancy.
Call 1177 for advice
Call the1177helplineif you need adviceon what to do. Your call will be answered by a nurse. The nurse can speak both Swedish and English. Help is sometimes available in other languages. Call 0046 771 11 77 00 if you are calling from a phone with a foreign number.
Get help from an interpreter
You can get help from an interpreter if you do not speak Swedish. Let the clinic know you need an interpreter when you book your appointment.
Share article
Share on facebook
Share on twitter
Share with a friend
Print page
Page Navigation
Nausea is common
You may be very tired
You may have stomach pain
You may have pelvic and back pain
You may catch a cold more easily
Your breasts may feel tender
Vaginal discharge
You may have trouble sleeping
You may get a stuffy nose and nosebleeds
Your legs and feet may become swollen
Changes to your skin
You may feel sad
You may feel dizzy
Constipation
Examples of other common discomforts
More content in English
English
You can read the content of 1177.se that is available in English here. Choose a region at the top of the page to find out what applies to you.
1177 in other languages
Here is a list of other languages that the material is available in. The page is available in English.
1177
–tryggt om din hälsa och vård
På 1177.se får du råd om hälsa och information om sjukdomar och vilka mottagningar du kan kontakta. Logga in för att läsa din journal och göra dina vårdärenden. Ring telefonnummer 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning dygnet runt.1177 ger dig råd när du vill må bättre.
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Behandling av personuppgifter
Hantering av kakor
Inställningar för kakor
1177 – en tjänst frånInera.