Till sidans huvudinnehåll
Besök 1177.se, logga in för personliga e-tjänster eller ring 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning.
Logga inat 1177.se
Hitta vårdat 1177.se
Searchat 1177.se
Menu
Liv & hälsa
Barn & gravid
Olyckor & skador
Sjukdomar & besvär
Undersökning & behandling
Så fungerar vården
Start
Other languages - andra språk
Förlossning
Att föda barn genom slidan - engelska
Giving birth through the vagina
Childbirth often starts with contractions or fluid coming out of the vagina. The contractions become longer and more frequent. The birth ends with you pushing the baby out through your vagina. Childbirth can take anywhere from a few hours to a few days.
Läs texten på svenska här.
Giving birth through the vagina is called a vaginal birth.
A movie about giving birth through the vagina.
A movie about giving birth through the vagina.
The cervix has to open up
The baby is inside the womb, which is also called the uterus. At the bottom of the uterus is the cervix, which has an opening down into the vagina.
The baby can be born when the cervix has softened and opened completely.
How childbirth begins
Most commonly, childbirth begins with contractions. Contractions are when the muscles of the uterus get tight and then relax to help push the baby out.
At first, the contractions usually feel like pain in the lower part of the abdomen. They may come a little now and then. Sometimes there is a longer break between the contractions. There may be more discharge than before.
Sometimes there is fluid or a little blood
Sometimes childbirth starts with fluid running out of the vagina.
Some births start with a little bleeding from the vagina.
Sometimes the contractions are strong right away. In such case, the cervix opens more quickly.
More contractions as the baby moves down towards the vagina
The contractions will eventually get stronger. They become longer and more regular.
It is common to have contractions for many hours. Sometimes for up to 24 hours.
The cervix opens completely.
The baby comes further down. As the baby approaches the opening of the vagina, it is common to feel sick and vomit.
It is good to change position
The birth may go faster if you change position. For example, you can walk, lie on your side, or kneel in the bed.
The midwife (barnmorska) can tell you when to change position.
Time to push
When the baby is at the opening of the vagina, it is time to push.
You push to help get the baby out through your vagina. You usually push when you are having a contraction.
Between contractions, you can usually rest.
When you have a contraction, you may feel the need to poo. Sometimes poo may even come out.
The midwife will help you
The midwife will help you and explain how and when to push.
It may burn and sting when the baby's head comes out through the vagina.
The opening of the vagina may be stretched if the head takes time to come through. There will then be less risk of tearing.
Sometimes vacuum extraction (sugklocka) is needed
Sometimes the birth needs to be assisted by applying a soft or rigid cup with a handle and a vacuum pump to the baby's head. This is called vacuum extraction. A doctor will then carefully guide the baby out while you push.
This method is most often needed when the contractions are too weak.
When the baby is born
You can have the baby resting on your chest straight away if you wish, and the baby seems fine.
It is good for the baby to have skin-to-skin contact.
In most cases, the baby will start crying at first.
Some babies need help from a midwife or paediatrician.
The uterus contracts
Once the baby is born, the uterus contracts.
The placenta detaches from the wall of the uterus, and you can push it out.
There will be a wound when the placenta detaches from the wall of the uterus. Blood will come from the wound, just like during a menstrual period. This bleeding is called discharge (avslag).
The midwife examines you
The midwife will examine your genital area to see if there are any tears.
You are usually given anaesthetic before the examination.
During childbirth, you will lose blood. Your body has prepared for this by producing about two litres of extra blood during your pregnancy.
You can get help from an interpreter
You may be entitled to aninterpreterif you do not speak Swedish.
Share article
Share on facebook
Share on twitter
Share with a friend
Print page
Page Navigation
The cervix has to open up
How childbirth begins
More contractions as the baby moves down towards the vagina
Time to push
When the baby is born
The uterus contracts
The midwife examines you
You can get help from an interpreter
More content in English
English
You can read the content of 1177.se that is available in English here. Choose a region at the top of the page to find out what applies to you.
1177 in other languages
Here is a list of other languages that the material is available in. The page is available in English.
1177
–tryggt om din hälsa och vård
På 1177.se får du råd om hälsa och information om sjukdomar och vilka mottagningar du kan kontakta. Logga in för att läsa din journal och göra dina vårdärenden. Ring telefonnummer 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning dygnet runt.1177 ger dig råd när du vill må bättre.
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Behandling av personuppgifter
Hantering av kakor
Inställningar för kakor
1177 – en tjänst frånInera.