Till sidans huvudinnehåll
Besök 1177.se, logga in för personliga e-tjänster eller ring 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning.
Logga inat 1177.se
Hitta vårdat 1177.se
Searchat 1177.se
Menu
Liv & hälsa
Barn & gravid
Olyckor & skador
Sjukdomar & besvär
Undersökning & behandling
Så fungerar vården
Start
Other languages - andra språk
Förlossning - engelska
Childbirth
Content - Childbirth
Giving birth through the vaginaAtt föda barn genom slidan - engelskaChildbirth often starts with contractions or fluid coming out of the vagina. The contractions become longer and more frequent. The birth ends with you pushing the baby out through your vagina. Childbirth can take anywhere from a few hours to a few days.
Giving birth through the vagina
Childbirth often starts with contractions or fluid coming out of the vagina. The contractions become longer and more frequent. The birth ends with you pushing the baby out through your vagina. Childbirth can take anywhere from a few hours to a few days.
When should I go to the maternity ward?När ska jag åka till förlossningsavdelningen? - engelskaDuring the early stage of labour, it is most common to stay home. When the contractions become stronger and more frequent, it is time to go to the hospital maternity ward.
When should I go to the maternity ward?
During the early stage of labour, it is most common to stay home. When the contractions become stronger and more frequent, it is time to go to the hospital maternity ward.
Maternity ward – where you go when it is time to give birthFörlossningsavdelningen - hit kommer du när du ska föda barn - engelskaWhen you are due to give birth, you can go to a maternity ward. There, you will be met by a midwife (barnmorska) and examined. You will be given your own room.
Maternity ward – where you go when it is time to give birth
When you are due to give birth, you can go to a maternity ward. There, you will be met by a midwife (barnmorska) and examined. You will be given your own room.
Inducing labourIgångsättning av förlossningen - engelskaSometimes help from a healthcare service is needed to get the childbirth process started. This is called inducing labour. There are different methods that can be used to induce labour. These are described here.
Inducing labour
Sometimes help from a healthcare service is needed to get the childbirth process started. This is called inducing labour. There are different methods that can be used to induce labour. These are described here.
Birthing positionsStällningar att föda i - engelskaThere are different positions that can help you when giving birth. It may feel good to change position from time to time to avoid getting too tired. This also makes it easier for the baby to move down towards the vagina and come out.
Birthing positions
There are different positions that can help you when giving birth. It may feel good to change position from time to time to avoid getting too tired. This also makes it easier for the baby to move down towards the vagina and come out.
Bleeding after giving birthBlödningar efter förlossningen - engelskaEveryone bleeds from the vagina after childbirth. The blood comes from a wound in the uterus. The wound occurs when the placenta detaches from the uterus. Some people who experience problems with bleeding may need to seek medical attention.
Bleeding after giving birth
Everyone bleeds from the vagina after childbirth. The blood comes from a wound in the uterus. The wound occurs when the placenta detaches from the uterus. Some people who experience problems with bleeding may need to seek medical attention.
Vaginal tears in childbirthBristningar vid förlossningar - andra språk - engelskaVaginal tears are common in childbirth. Some tears are more severe and require stitches. Tears can be small or large. The tears are immediately taken care of after childbirth by a midwife (barnmorska) or doctor.
Vaginal tears in childbirth
Vaginal tears are common in childbirth. Some tears are more severe and require stitches. Tears can be small or large. The tears are immediately taken care of after childbirth by a midwife (barnmorska) or doctor.
Uterine infection after childbirthInfektion i livmodern efter förlossning - engelskaSome people develop an infection in their uterus after giving birth. This is because bacteria have got into the uterus. Seek medical attention so you can get treatment.
Uterine infection after childbirth
Some people develop an infection in their uterus after giving birth. This is because bacteria have got into the uterus. Seek medical attention so you can get treatment.
Leaving hospital and the initial time period after childbirthAtt lämna sjukhuset och första tiden efter en förlossning - engelskaThe length of stay in hospital after giving birth varies. It depends on the amount of care and help you and your baby need. Even if you have gone home with your baby, you can contact the hospital if you need to.
Leaving hospital and the initial time period after childbirth
The length of stay in hospital after giving birth varies. It depends on the amount of care and help you and your baby need. Even if you have gone home with your baby, you can contact the hospital if you need to.
Prolapse after giving birthFramfall efter att du har fött barn - engelskaDuring a prolapse, something is bulging out through the opening of the vagina. This could be the uterus or the inside of the vagina (birth canal). It may feel uncomfortable, but there is treatment that can help.
Prolapse after giving birth
During a prolapse, something is bulging out through the opening of the vagina. This could be the uterus or the inside of the vagina (birth canal). It may feel uncomfortable, but there is treatment that can help.
Visit to the midwifery clinic after you have given birthBesök på barnmorskemottagningen efter du har fött barn - engelskaAfter you have given birth, it is important to visit the midwife at the midwifery clinic. At the appointment, you will discuss how the birth went and how things have been afterwards. You will also undergo a physical examination and be given the opportunity to ask questions.
Visit to the midwifery clinic after you have given birth
After you have given birth, it is important to visit the midwife at the midwifery clinic. At the appointment, you will discuss how the birth went and how things have been afterwards. You will also undergo a physical examination and be given the opportunity to ask questions.
Your feelings about your childbirth experienceHur du upplevde din förlossning - engelskaIt is common to feel many emotions after giving birth. That is why it can be helpful to talk about your childbirth experience with a midwife or doctor. You can get more support if you need it.
Your feelings about your childbirth experience
It is common to feel many emotions after giving birth. That is why it can be helpful to talk about your childbirth experience with a midwife or doctor. You can get more support if you need it.
Menstruation after giving birthMens efter du har fött barn - engelskaWhen you start getting your period again after giving birth varies from one person to another. It is possible to become pregnant before you have started menstruating again.
Menstruation after giving birth
When you start getting your period again after giving birth varies from one person to another. It is possible to become pregnant before you have started menstruating again.
Exercise and physical activity after pregnancyAtt träna och röra på sig efter förlossningen - engelskaBeing pregnant and having a baby affects your body. After giving birth, your body needs to heal. Once your body has healed, it is a good idea to exercise. This video shows five exercises you can do.
Exercise and physical activity after pregnancy
Being pregnant and having a baby affects your body. After giving birth, your body needs to heal. Once your body has healed, it is a good idea to exercise. This video shows five exercises you can do.
1177
–tryggt om din hälsa och vård
På 1177.se får du råd om hälsa och information om sjukdomar och vilka mottagningar du kan kontakta. Logga in för att läsa din journal och göra dina vårdärenden. Ring telefonnummer 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning dygnet runt.1177 ger dig råd när du vill må bättre.
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Behandling av personuppgifter
Hantering av kakor
Inställningar för kakor
1177 – en tjänst frånInera.