Till sidans huvudinnehåll
Besök 1177.se, logga in för personliga e-tjänster eller ring 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning.
Logga inat 1177.se
Hitta vårdat 1177.se
Searchat 1177.se
Menu
Liv & hälsa
Barn & gravid
Olyckor & skador
Sjukdomar & besvär
Undersökning & behandling
Så fungerar vården
Start
Other languages - andra språk
Att ta hand om barn
Vanliga besvär vid amning - engelska
Common breastfeeding problems
It is common to experience breast discomfort when you first start breastfeeding. This will often pass after a while. Sometimes treatment is needed.
You can get help with breastfeeding. During the first week after giving birth, you can contact the maternity ward, also called the BB ward.
You can also contact the children's health centre (BVC) or a midwifery clinic. Some places have special lactation support clinics.
Läs texten på svenska här.
Your breasts are taut and leaky
It is common for breasts to be taut or leaky, especially when your milk first comes in.You may also produce more milk than your baby is able to take in.
Apply pressure to the nipple
You can apply pressure to the nipple to stop the flow of milk. There are also so-called milk catchers or nursing pads that you can put in your bra.
If you have too much milk, you can hand-express some milk before feeding your baby. Take a break once in a while and let the milk drain out on its own.
Engorgement
When your milk first comes in, your breasts may feel very firm and taut. This usually occurs three to four days after you have given birth. Your body temperature may also be higher than normal.
This is called engorgement, and it usually goes away after a few days.
How to find relief
The best way is to let your baby nurse often.
It may feel nice to put something warm or cold on your breasts.
Latching pain
It is common to feel sore when you first start breastfeeding. Your nipples are sensitive and not used to nursing yet. This usually passes.
It can also hurt if your baby has a shallow latch, meaning that they do not have their mouth open wide enough when nursing.Here is a video showing how to help your baby get a deep latch.
Painkillers
You can use non-prescription medicines with paracetamol or ibuprofen if you are in pain.
Sore nipples
Blisters, sores or cracks can form on your nipples.
Important to keep clean and dry
Wash your hands before breastfeeding. It is important to keep the area clean if sores develop. You could develop an infection if bacteria get into the sores.
Avoid using soap and lotions on your breasts. You can massage breast milk into your nipples before and after nursing. You can also clean your breasts with saline solution.
Allow your nipples to rest
You may need to give your nipples a break from breastfeeding to let them heal. In such case, you can hand-express milk or use a breast pump.
You can also use an aid called a nipple shield, which is a flexible silicone teat that protects the nipple.
Thrush (yeast infection)
Cracked and sore nipples can also be caused by a yeast infection called thrush.
Thrush can clear up on its own. If not, you may need to use a special ointment.
It is also important to keep your breasts dry if you have thrush.
Breast abscess
There is a risk of developing a breast abscess if you have a breast infection. A breast abscess can be very painful. You may also have a fever.
A breast abscess needs to be treated by a doctor.
Blocked milk ducts
If your breasts remain overly full for a length of time, one or more of the milk ducts in your breast may become blocked. When this happens, the milk cannot come out.
Common symptoms:
You have a lump under your skin.
An area of your breast feels warm and tender.
You have a fever.
It hurts when you breastfeed.
Try to get the milk out
It is best if your baby continues to suckle the affected breast. This will help the milk come out.
You can also try to hand-express milk or use a breast pump.
While breastfeeding, pumping or hand-expressing, massage your breast starting at the hard area and moving towards your nipple.
When and where should I seek medical care?
Call the 1177 helplineif you need adviceon what to do. Your call will be answered by a nurse. The nurse can speak both Swedish and English. Help is sometimes available in other languages. Call +46 771 11 77 00 if you are calling from a phone with a foreign number.
Seek medical care
Contact a healthcare centre if any of the following applies:
it feels like you have an abscess in your breast
you suspect you have a thrust (yeast) infection in your breast.
Sometimes a video call with a doctor or midwife is enough to provide the help you need.
Get help from an interpreter
You can get help from an interpreter if you do not speak Swedish.
Share article
Share on facebook
Share on twitter
Share with a friend
Print page
Page Navigation
Your breasts are taut and leaky
Engorgement
Sore nipples
Blocked milk ducts
When and where should I seek medical care?
More content in English
English
You can read the content of 1177.se that is available in English here. Choose a region at the top of the page to find out what applies to you.
1177 in other languages
Here is a list of other languages that the material is available in. The page is available in English.
1177
–tryggt om din hälsa och vård
På 1177.se får du råd om hälsa och information om sjukdomar och vilka mottagningar du kan kontakta. Logga in för att läsa din journal och göra dina vårdärenden. Ring telefonnummer 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning dygnet runt.1177 ger dig råd när du vill må bättre.
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Behandling av personuppgifter
Hantering av kakor
Inställningar för kakor
1177 – en tjänst frånInera.