Till sidans huvudinnehåll
Besök 1177.se, logga in för personliga e-tjänster eller ring 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning.
Logga inat 1177.se
Hitta vårdat 1177.se
Searchat 1177.se
Menu
Liv & hälsa
Barn & gravid
Olyckor & skador
Sjukdomar & besvär
Undersökning & behandling
Så fungerar vården
Start
Other languages - andra språk
Mammografi
Du har fått en kallelse till mammografi - engelska
You have received an appointment letter for a mammography examination
In Sweden, all women of certain ages are regularly summoned to X-ray their breasts. The breast X-ray is called a mammogram. The examination is called screening. The purpose of screening is to detect any changes that may be symptoms of breast cancer. You can have breast cancer without noticing anything different. The chances of full recovery increase if breast cancer is detected at an early stage. Mammography screening is almost always able to detect early stages and precursors of breast cancer.
Some early cancerous changes will never develop into malignant breast cancer  but it is impossible to know that in advance. That is why all early cancerous changes are regarded as being dangerous. So screening can lead to some people being treated for breast cancer even though they don't actually need it.
A mammography examination is a quick procedure. You do not need to make any preparations. Specially trained nurses will perform the examination and help you during your visit.
The Swedish letter you have received states the place and time of your appointment. Feel free to reschedule if you cannot make the appointment. Screening is completely voluntary. Don't forget to have an ID card with you. You are welcome to bring a friend or family member along.
Läs texten på svenska här
Du har fått en kallelse till mammografi
Share article
Share on facebook
Share on twitter
Share with a friend
Print page
Page Navigation
1177
–tryggt om din hälsa och vård
På 1177.se får du råd om hälsa och information om sjukdomar och vilka mottagningar du kan kontakta. Logga in för att läsa din journal och göra dina vårdärenden. Ring telefonnummer 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning dygnet runt.1177 ger dig råd när du vill må bättre.
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Behandling av personuppgifter
Hantering av kakor
Inställningar för kakor
1177 – en tjänst frånInera.