Till sidans huvudinnehåll
Besök 1177.se, logga in för personliga e-tjänster eller ring 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning.
Logga inat 1177.se
Hitta vårdat 1177.se
Searchat 1177.se
Menu
Liv & hälsa
Barn & gravid
Olyckor & skador
Sjukdomar & besvär
Undersökning & behandling
Så fungerar vården
Start
Other languages - andra språk
Tandvård
Så fungerar tandvården i Sverige - engelska
How dental care works in Sweden
Dental care is often more expensive than other care. Compare dental care costs before choosing a dentist or dental hygienist. The amount you need to pay depends on factors such as your age and what treatments you need.
In Sweden, you pay a large part of the dental care costs yourself. So, always ask your dentist or dental hygienist how much an examination or treatment will cost. You have the right to know this before the services are provided.
If you come from another country or are an asylum seeker,you can read more here.
Läs textenpå svenska här.
How do I seek dental care?
If you need help with your teeth, seek treatment at a dental clinic, which is staffed by dentists, dental hygienists and dental nurses. They can examine, treat and prevent problems with your teeth and gums. You can choose which clinic you want to visit.
You can finddental carehere.
Free for children and young people
Children and young people can receive dental care free of charge. This applies until 31 December of the year of their 23rd birthday. Almost all examinations and treatments are covered.
Financial support for dental care
You will need to pay for dental care from the year of your 24th birthday.
You receive an allowance for dental care each year. The amount you receive depends on your age. This is called the general dental care allowance. When it is time to pay, let your dental clinic know that you want the allowance applied.
Special allowance if you have a disease
If you have a disease that affects your teeth, you can receive a special allowance for dental care. A dentist or dental hygienist will decide whether you are eligible for the special dental care allowance. You may need a doctor’s certificate stating what disease you have.
Limit for how much you have to pay
There is a limit for how much you have to pay for dental care over a twelve-month period. This is called high-cost protection for dental care.
Sometimes dental care is paid like medical care
There are some cases where you pay the same price for dental care as you would for medical care. One example of this is if you have a disease and need dental care as part of the treatment.
Such dental care is free of charge for people aged 85 and older.
Fixed price in some clinics
Some dental clinics offer an agreement that acts like insurance. This means that you pay the same amount every month. You pay this amount even when you do not visit the dentist that particular month. When you later need treatment, like getting a filling in a tooth, it is already paid for.
You can ask for help if you cannot afford dental treatment. Ask the dental clinic if they would split the bill into several invoices. You could also talk to your bank or contact Social Services in your municipality.
Interpretation into your language
You can get help from aninterpreter if you do not speak Swedish. Let the clinic know you need an interpreter when you book your appointment. There may sometimes be a charge for interpreter services.
Share article
Share on facebook
Share on twitter
Share with a friend
Print page
Page Navigation
How do I seek dental care?
Free for children and young people
Financial support for dental care
Sometimes dental care is paid like medical care
Fixed price in some clinics
Interpretation into your language
More content in English
English
You can read the content of 1177.se that is available in English here. Choose a region at the top of the page to find out what applies to you.
1177 in other languages
Here is a list of other languages that the material is available in. The page is available in English.
1177
–tryggt om din hälsa och vård
På 1177.se får du råd om hälsa och information om sjukdomar och vilka mottagningar du kan kontakta. Logga in för att läsa din journal och göra dina vårdärenden. Ring telefonnummer 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning dygnet runt.1177 ger dig råd när du vill må bättre.
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Behandling av personuppgifter
Hantering av kakor
Inställningar för kakor
1177 – en tjänst frånInera.