Till sidans huvudinnehåll
Besök 1177.se, logga in för personliga e-tjänster eller ring 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning.
Logga inat 1177.se
Hitta vårdat 1177.se
Searchat 1177.se
Menu
Liv & hälsa
Barn & gravid
Olyckor & skador
Sjukdomar & besvär
Undersökning & behandling
Så fungerar vården
Start
Other languages - andra språk
Söka vård - andra språk
Vård i Sverige om du kommer från ett annat land - engelska
Healthcare in Sweden if you come from another country
In Sweden, you always have the right to emergency care. This is true even if you come from another country and become ill while you are in Sweden. How much you will have to pay depends, among other things, on which country you are from. In some cases, you have to pay the full cost yourself.
If you are anasylum seeker or do not have a permit to be in Sweden, you can find more informationhere.
Lästexten på svenska här.
You always have the right to emergency care
You always have the right to receive care in urgent situations. In other words, emergency care that you need urgently, such as if you get a serious infection or if you break a bone and need to be fitted with a plaster cast.
Necessary care
Another type of care is called necessary care. This includes care for conditions such as a chronic disease that you have your whole life.
You have the right to necessary care if, for example, you are insured in a country that is part of the EU. Being insured in a country means that you are covered by that country's social insurance system.
How much does healthcare cost?
The cost of healthcare services depends on which country you are insured in. There are different rules for different countries.
The Nordic countries
If you are insured in a Nordic country, you pay the same amount for healthcare servicesas people insured in Sweden. The Nordic countries are:
Denmark
Finland
Norway
Faroe Islands
Greenland
Iceland.
You will need to show an ID card and provide your home address.
European Health Insurance Card = EU card
If you are insured in any of the following countries, you pay the same amount for healthcare servicesas people insured in Sweden:
an EU country
Liechtenstein
Switzerland.
You will need to show a European Health Insurance Card. This may also be called an EU card.
You order the European Health Insurance Card, EHIC, from the country inwhich you are insured. Children must also have an EU card.
Apply for reimbursement of the money afterwards
You can also pay the full cost of the healthcare services yourself, and then apply for reimbursement of the money you have spent from your home country.
If you plan to seek medical treatment
When you travel to Sweden for planned treatment, different rules apply.
If you come from a Nordic country
If you are insured in a Nordic country, you need a special certificate. You will then pay the same fees as people insured in Sweden.
You can apply for the certificate from your country's equivalent to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency (Försäkringskassan).
Some people may need to apply for reimbursement of the money afterwards
If you are insured in an EU country, Norway, Iceland or Liechtenstein, you can apply for planned treatment in Sweden. In such case, you will pay for the treatment at the time it is provided, but can then apply for reimbursement of the money from your home country.
The rules for how much you can be reimbursed differ from country to country.
If you come from a country outside of the EU, EEA or Switzerland
Most people who come from a country outside of the EU, EEA or Switzerland will have to pay the full cost themselves if they need healthcare services in Sweden. This applies to emergency, necessary, and planned care.The EEA includes Norway, Iceland, and Liechtenstein.
Sweden has an agreement with some countries
Sweden has a special agreement with some countries regarding healthcare. Under this agreement, people from the countries in question pay the same amount for certain types of healthcare services as people insured in Sweden.This applies, for example, if you break a bone and need to be fitted with a plaster.
Countries with an agreement are:
Australia
Algeria
Israel
Turkey
the state of Quebec in Canada.
Interpretation into your language
You can get help from aninterpreter if you do not speak Swedish. Let the clinic know you need an interpreter when you book your appointment.
Share article
Share on facebook
Share on twitter
Share with a friend
Print page
Page Navigation
You always have the right to emergency care
How much does healthcare cost?
If you plan to seek medical treatment
If you come from a country outside of the EU, EEA or Switzerland
Interpretation into your language
More content in English
English
You can read the content of 1177.se that is available in English here. Choose a region at the top of the page to find out what applies to you.
1177 in other languages
Here is a list of other languages that the material is available in. The page is available in English.
1177
–tryggt om din hälsa och vård
På 1177.se får du råd om hälsa och information om sjukdomar och vilka mottagningar du kan kontakta. Logga in för att läsa din journal och göra dina vårdärenden. Ring telefonnummer 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning dygnet runt.1177 ger dig råd när du vill må bättre.
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Behandling av personuppgifter
Hantering av kakor
Inställningar för kakor
1177 – en tjänst frånInera.