Till sidans huvudinnehåll
Besök 1177.se, logga in för personliga e-tjänster eller ring 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning.
Logga inat 1177.se
Hitta vårdat 1177.se
Searchat 1177.se
Menu
Liv & hälsa
Barn & gravid
Olyckor & skador
Sjukdomar & besvär
Undersökning & behandling
Så fungerar vården
Start
Other languages - andra språk
Förlossning
Besök på barnmorskemottagningen efter du har fött barn - engelska
Visit to the midwifery clinic after you have given birth
After you have given birth, it is important to visit the midwife at the midwifery clinic. At the appointment, you will discuss how the birth went and how things have been afterwards. You will also undergo a physical examination and be given the opportunity to ask questions.
The visit is intended to let the midwife know how you are feeling and whether your body is healing properly.
Attending the visit is voluntary.
You can bring along your baby if you like.
Läs texten på svenska här.
How the visit is scheduled varies
How the visit is scheduled varies. In some regions, the midwife will call you to make an appointment. In other regions, you have to call to make the appointment.
When does the visit to the midwifery clinic take place?
The visit takes place within 16 weeks of the birth. You decide when it is convenient for you to go. If you wish, you can go after a few weeks.
You can go for one or two visits. You can even have additional visits if you wish.
During these visits, it is common to see the same midwife as you saw during your pregnancy. However, you can see a different midwife if you wish.
What happens at the visit?
You can ask any questions you may have.
You will talk about topics such as:
How you are feeling both physically and emotionally.
Your childbirth experience and how you felt things went. You will read the medical record of the birth, which states what care you received and the birth process you experienced.
Breastfeedingand feeding the baby.
How you feel about being a parent.
What it is like to have another child, if your baby already has siblings.
Sex and contraception.
Relationships.
Different measurements
At the visit, the midwife will usually measure your blood pressure and take a blood sample. You will also be weighed.
Examination in and around your vagina
The midwife will examine the area in and around your vagina. You will be asked to lie on your back in a special chair that has leg supports. Your legs will be apart and you will be completely undressed in the lower part of your body.
Examples of what the midwife will examine include:
Whether you havetearingin your vagina after giving birth.
How the muscles in and around your vagina and rectum are working.
If you had a caesarean section
The midwife will examine the wound visually and by touch.
If you need support
The midwife will help to arrange a doctor’s appointment, if necessary.
In some cases, you may need care from another healthcare provider, such as a physiotherapist or a psychologist.The midwife will help you to make an appointment.
Get help from an interpreter
If you do not speak Swedish, you can get help from aninterpreterduring your healthcare visits. Let the clinic know you need an interpreter when you book your appointment.
Share article
Share on facebook
Share on twitter
Share with a friend
Print page
Page Navigation
How the visit is scheduled varies
When does the visit to the midwifery clinic take place?
What happens at the visit?
If you need support
Get help from an interpreter
More content in English
English
You can read the content of 1177.se that is available in English here. Choose a region at the top of the page to find out what applies to you.
1177 in other languages
Here is a list of other languages that the material is available in. The page is available in English.
1177
–tryggt om din hälsa och vård
På 1177.se får du råd om hälsa och information om sjukdomar och vilka mottagningar du kan kontakta. Logga in för att läsa din journal och göra dina vårdärenden. Ring telefonnummer 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning dygnet runt.1177 ger dig råd när du vill må bättre.
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Behandling av personuppgifter
Hantering av kakor
Inställningar för kakor
1177 – en tjänst frånInera.