Till sidans huvudinnehåll
Besök 1177.se, logga in för personliga e-tjänster eller ring 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning.
Logga inat 1177.se
Hitta vårdat 1177.se
Searchat 1177.se
Menu
Liv & hälsa
Barn & gravid
Olyckor & skador
Sjukdomar & besvär
Undersökning & behandling
Så fungerar vården
Start
Other languages - andra språk
Graviditet - andra språk
Gravid eller nyss fött barn? Gör din röst hörd - engelska
Pregnant or recently given birth? Make your voice heard
If you are pregnant or have recently given birth, you now have the chance to participate in Graviditetsenkäten (the Pregnancy Survey). You will be asked questions about how you felt about the care you received during your pregnancy, after giving birth, and one year after giving birth. The survey also includes questions about your health. Each pregnancy and childbirth experience is unique, so your participation is important to us. Your feedback will help us improve the care.
Log inand enter your contact details to participate. Each part of the survey takes about five minutes to answer.
Läs texten på svenska här.
Who can take part in the survey?
The survey is divided into three sessions. You answer one section at a time. You will receive an email in your inbox here at the 1177.se website if any of the following applies to you:
You are in week 25 of pregnancy.
You gave birth eight weeks ago.
You gave birth a year ago.
The email contains a clickable link to the relevant section of the survey. You’re free to complete all sections, but you don’t have to. If you are 25 weeks pregnant, you will receive all sections, and you can fill in one section or more.
To receive the survey, you must first log in and enter your contact details.
How do I take the survey?
Log in to 1177.se.
Go to settings and enter your email address or mobile phone number.
Choose whether you want to be contacted by email or text message.
Tick the “aviseringar” (notification) box, and you will receive a notice when the survey has been sent to you.
Once you have received the survey, you have six weeks to complete it.
What kind of questions are asked in the survey?
You will be asked questions about your experiences of and opinions about the care you received. For example, you may be asked questions about how you were treated by the midwife and other staff.
You will also be asked questions about your health, such as how you have been feeling during your pregnancy, or how you felt after giving birth.
Why is this survey being done?
The purpose of this survey is to give your region information to help develop and improve healthcare. The regions would like to improve care before, during and after childbirth.
Who formulated the questions in the survey?
The questions in the survey were formulated bySveriges Kommuner och Regioner, SKR, in collaboration with Bristningsregistret, Graviditetsregistret,Svenska Barnmorskeförbundet, andSFOG – Svensk förening för obstetrik och gynekologi.
Participation in this survey is voluntary, and so is registering with Graviditetsregistret (the Swedish Pregnancy Register). Your responses will not be linked to you personally. Healthcare professionals can’t see if you have taken the survey, and they can’t access your responses.
The results will be presented at a group level once enough people have responded. According to law, personal data, like your name and your personal identity number, must always be anonymised before the results can be disclosed or used in reports or for research purposes.
Who can answer questions about the pregnancy survey?
Please contact a midwife if you have any questions about how to answer the survey. Are you experiencing any problems, or do you need support during your pregnancy or after giving birth? Please contact a midwife or health centre.
Share article
Share on facebook
Share on twitter
Share with a friend
Print page
Page Navigation
Who can take part in the survey?
How do I take the survey?
What kind of questions are asked in the survey?
Why is this survey being done?
Who formulated the questions in the survey?
Who can answer questions about the pregnancy survey?
More content in English
English
You can read the content of 1177.se that is available in English here. Choose a region at the top of the page to find out what applies to you.
1177 in other languages
Here is a list of other languages that the material is available in. The page is available in English.
1177
–tryggt om din hälsa och vård
På 1177.se får du råd om hälsa och information om sjukdomar och vilka mottagningar du kan kontakta. Logga in för att läsa din journal och göra dina vårdärenden. Ring telefonnummer 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning dygnet runt.1177 ger dig råd när du vill må bättre.
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Behandling av personuppgifter
Hantering av kakor
Inställningar för kakor
1177 – en tjänst frånInera.