Till sidans huvudinnehåll
Besök 1177.se, logga in för personliga e-tjänster eller ring 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning.
Logga inat 1177.se
Hitta vårdat 1177.se
Searchat 1177.se
Menu
Liv & hälsa
Barn & gravid
Olyckor & skador
Sjukdomar & besvär
Undersökning & behandling
Så fungerar vården
Start
Other languages - andra språk
Söka vård - andra språk
Så köper du läkemedel i Sverige  - engelska
How to buy medicines in Sweden
You can buy some common medicines yourself from places such as a pharmacy or shop. However, there are some medicines that require a prescription. For these, you need to first contact a healthcare provider.
It is important that you know how to take your medicines. If you have any questions about your medicines, contact a healthcare professional. You can also ask at a pharmacy.
Läs textenpå svenska här.
Different types of medicines
There are different types of medicines. Some medicines, called over-the-counter medicines, can be bought without a prescription. Examples of these include medicines for a cough, sore throat, aches or fever. This is called self-care. The other type of medicine is part of a treatment. For such medicines, you need a prescription.
When you are at the doctor’s
Before a doctor or other healthcare professional writes a prescription, you need to tell them what other medicines you are taking. This is important to make sure you get the right medicine at the right dose.
You can read more in the text:How healthcare works in Sweden.
Where do I buy medicines?
You can buy medicines in a pharmacy or a shop.
Buying at a pharmacy
At a pharmacy, you can buy both medicine for self-care and prescription medicine.Only pharmacies and their websites are allowed to sell prescription medicines.
When you shop on a pharmacy website, the medicines are sent to your home or to the pharmacy. Some pharmacies can also deliver medicines to you.
All pharmacy staff are sworn to secrecy.This means that the staff are not allowed to tell anyone else anything about you.
You must be at least 18 years old to buy certain medicines from a pharmacy.
Buying at a grocery store or petrol station
You can buy many self-care medicines at a grocery store or petrol station.
To buy medicines in a shop or at a petrol station, you must be at least 18 years old.
If you have any questions
All pharmacies have trained staff. They can answer questions about medicines.
You can also callLäkemedelsupplysningen(Medicines Information Line), which is open weekdays between 8:00 and 17:00. The phone number is 0771-46 70 10. They can speak both Swedish and English.
How much do prescription medicines cost?
If you live in Sweden, you are covered by what is known as high-cost protection. You only pay up to a certain amount each year for your prescription medicines. Children under 18 years of age do not usually have to pay for prescription medicines.
This also applies to children who are seeking asylum or who do not have a permit to be in Sweden.
Adults who are seeking asylum or who do not have a permit to be in Sweden have to pay a small fee for prescription medicines.
LMA card if you are an asylum seeker
When you seek asylum, you will receive a special card from the Swedish Migration Agency (Migrationsverket). This is called anLMAcard. It applies to both adults and children. When you present the card, you can buy some prescription medicines at a lower price.
What should I do if I come from Ukraine?
Register with the Swedish Migration Agency if you are a refugee from Ukraine.
Present your UT card when you visit a pharmacy
When you register with the Swedish Migration Agency, you will receive a special card. This is called aUTcard. It applies to both adults and children. When you present the card, you can buy some prescription medicines at a lower price.
If you are not registered with the Swedish Migration Agency
If you are not registered with the Swedish Migration Agency, you have to pay the full price for medicines.
Interpretation into your language
You can get help from aninterpreter if you do not speak Swedish. When booking your healthcare appointment, let them know that you need an interpreter.
Share article
Share on facebook
Share on twitter
Share with a friend
Print page
Page Navigation
Different types of medicines
When you are at the doctor’s
Where do I buy medicines?
If you have any questions
How much do prescription medicines cost?
LMA card if you are an asylum seeker
What should I do if I come from Ukraine?
Interpretation into your language
More content in English
English
You can read the content of 1177.se that is available in English here. Choose a region at the top of the page to find out what applies to you.
1177 in other languages
Here is a list of other languages that the material is available in. The page is available in English.
1177
–tryggt om din hälsa och vård
På 1177.se får du råd om hälsa och information om sjukdomar och vilka mottagningar du kan kontakta. Logga in för att läsa din journal och göra dina vårdärenden. Ring telefonnummer 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning dygnet runt.1177 ger dig råd när du vill må bättre.
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Behandling av personuppgifter
Hantering av kakor
Inställningar för kakor
1177 – en tjänst frånInera.