Till sidans huvudinnehåll
Besök 1177.se, logga in för personliga e-tjänster eller ring 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning.
Logga inat 1177.se
Hitta vårdat 1177.se
Searchat 1177.se
Menu
Liv & hälsa
Barn & gravid
Olyckor & skador
Sjukdomar & besvär
Undersökning & behandling
Så fungerar vården
Start
Other languages - andra språk
Graviditet - andra språk
Att må illa under graviditeten - engelska
Nausea during pregnancy
It is common to feel nauseous and vomit when you are pregnant. Many people call this morning sickness. Although unpleasant, it is not harmful to you or your baby. There are some things you can do to feel better.
Nausea is most common in early pregnancy. Most people stop feeling sick around week 20 of their pregnancy. Some people feel sick throughout their whole pregnancy.
Du kan läsa texten på svenskahär.
How you may feel
Some people feel sick at certain times of the day. Others feel sick all the time. It is common for certain smells to make the nausea worse.
Some may feel so nauseous that they vomit.
Extreme nausea
Some people become very nauseous and vomit very often. In such cases, there is a risk of dehydration and not getting enough nutrients.
If you are feeling this poorly, you may need hospital care for periods of time.
When and where should I seek medical care?
Most people who feel nauseous during pregnancy do not need medical care. Talk to a midwife (barnmorska) if you have any questions or need advice.
Contact a healthcare provider if you cannot keep any food or drink down.
Contact one of these clinics:
A midwifery clinic (barnmorskemottagning)
A healthcare centre
An out-of-hours service.
Get help from an interpreter
You can get help from an interpreter if you do not speak Swedish.
Let the clinic know you need an interpreter when you book your appointment.
Call 1177 for advice
Call the 1177 helplineif you need adviceon what to do. Your call will be answered by a nurse. The nurse can speak both Swedish and English. Help is sometimes available in other languages. Call +46 771 11 77 00 if you are calling from a phone with a foreign number.
Self-help tips
Here are some tips that may help:
Get some fresh air and exercise.
Get rest.
Avoid stress.
Try to eat something as soon as you wake up.
Eat often, but small portions at a time.
Avoid foods that are fatty, spicy or fried.
Try to drink tea or eat foods that contain some ginger.
If you vomit a lot, you will need to drink a little more than usual.
If you need support
Feeling nauseous and vomiting during pregnancy is often taxing. It may feel better to talk to someone about your symptoms. For example, you can talk to a midwife.
Treatment
There are medicines that can help. For example, some people feel better with medicine for motion sickness.
Talk to a doctor, midwife or pharmacist before using any medicine while pregnant.
Some people find that acupuncture helps.
Some people may need hospital treatment
If you are extremely nauseous and vomit a lot, you may need hospital treatment. You can then be given nutrition directly into your bloodstream by IV drip.
What causes nausea during pregnancy?
The nausea is caused by the hormones in your body when you are pregnant. Some people react to these hormones more than others.
The nausea may be worse when you are tired, stressed or have not eaten anything.
Nausea is particularly common if you are pregnant with more than one child.
It is not harmful
Feeling nauseous and vomiting are not harmful to you or your baby. The baby is getting the nutrients it needs.
Share article
Share on facebook
Share on twitter
Share with a friend
Print page
Page Navigation
How you may feel
When and where should I seek medical care?
Self-help tips
Treatment
What causes nausea during pregnancy?
More content in English
English
You can read the content of 1177.se that is available in English here. Choose a region at the top of the page to find out what applies to you.
1177 in other languages
Here is a list of other languages that the material is available in. The page is available in English.
1177
–tryggt om din hälsa och vård
På 1177.se får du råd om hälsa och information om sjukdomar och vilka mottagningar du kan kontakta. Logga in för att läsa din journal och göra dina vårdärenden. Ring telefonnummer 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning dygnet runt.1177 ger dig råd när du vill må bättre.
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Behandling av personuppgifter
Hantering av kakor
Inställningar för kakor
1177 – en tjänst frånInera.