Till sidans huvudinnehåll
Besök 1177.se, logga in för personliga e-tjänster eller ring 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning.
Logga inat 1177.se
Hitta vårdat 1177.se
Searchat 1177.se
Menu
Liv & hälsa
Barn & gravid
Olyckor & skador
Sjukdomar & besvär
Undersökning & behandling
Så fungerar vården
Start
Other languages - andra språk
Graviditet - andra språk
Att ha ont i bäckenet under graviditeten - engelska
Pain in your pelvic area during pregnancy
When you are pregnant, the joints in your body become more flexible. You may experience pain in your pelvic area. This is common and usually goes away after childbirth.
Pain in your pelvic area during pregnancy is called pelvic girdle pain. This was previously called symphysis pubis dysfunction.
Läs textenpå svenska här.
Where does it usually hurt?
It is common to have pain in the following places:
The lower back.
The buttocks.
The hips.
The pubic bone.
The back of the thighs.
The groin.
When does it hurt?
It may hurt so much that you find it difficult to move around as usual.
Some people have pain almost all the time. Others have pain only sometimes.
It is common for it to hurt more later in the day than in the morning.
When and where should I seek medical care?
Seek medical care if you are pregnant and have pain in your back or pelvis.
You can contact a midwife (barnmorska) or a physiotherapist.
See a physiotherapist if you have pain three months after giving birth.
Call 1177 for advice
Call 1177 for help on what to do. Your call will be answered by a nurse. If needed, theycan tell you where to go for treatment.
The nurses speak Swedish and English. Help is sometimes available in other languages.
Call 0046 771-11 77 00 if you are calling from a phone with a foreign number.
Get help from an interpreter
You can get help from an interpreter if you do not speak Swedish.Let the clinic know you need an interpreter when you book your appointment.
Everyday tips to reduce pain
Here are some tips you can try:
Alternate between standing, sitting and walking.
Take shorter steps than usual when walking.
Take several shorter walks instead of one long walk.
Take a lift, if available.
Wear comfortable shoes.
Support the lumbar area of your back with a pillow when sitting.
Place a pillow between your knees when lying on your side.
Put something warm on the area that hurts, such as a heating pad.
Avoid the following:
Pushing a heavy pram or shopping trolley.
Sitting cross-legged.
Lifting heavy things.
Walking up and down stairs.
Bending down too often.
It is a good idea to exercise your muscles
It is a good idea to exercise both your back and your abdominal muscles. These muscles can support the pelvis.
A physiotherapist can advise you.
Treatment
You can get help from a midwife or physiotherapist. Here are some examples:
You can buy or rent a pregnancy support belt.
You can rent a so-called TENS machine. This can relieve pain using a weak electrical impulse.
You can get acupuncture.
What causes pelvic girdle pain?
The joints in your body become more flexible when you are pregnant. This is due to hormones.
As a result of this, your pelvis may become less stable. You may then experience pain.
If you get pregnant again
Pelvic girdle pain will often come back during a new pregnancy.
If you are planning to become pregnant again, you can prepare your body by doing certain exercises. You can get advice from a physiotherapist.
Share article
Share on facebook
Share on twitter
Share with a friend
Print page
Page Navigation
Where does it usually hurt?
When and where should I seek medical care?
Everyday tips to reduce pain
Treatment
What causes pelvic girdle pain?
If you get pregnant again
More content in English
English
You can read the content of 1177.se that is available in English here. Choose a region at the top of the page to find out what applies to you.
1177 in other languages
Here is a list of other languages that the material is available in. The page is available in English.
1177
–tryggt om din hälsa och vård
På 1177.se får du råd om hälsa och information om sjukdomar och vilka mottagningar du kan kontakta. Logga in för att läsa din journal och göra dina vårdärenden. Ring telefonnummer 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning dygnet runt.1177 ger dig råd när du vill må bättre.
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Behandling av personuppgifter
Hantering av kakor
Inställningar för kakor
1177 – en tjänst frånInera.