Till sidans huvudinnehåll
Besök 1177.se, logga in för personliga e-tjänster eller ring 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning.
Logga inat 1177.se
Hitta vårdat 1177.se
Searchat 1177.se
Menu
Liv & hälsa
Barn & gravid
Olyckor & skador
Sjukdomar & besvär
Undersökning & behandling
Så fungerar vården
Start
Other languages - andra språk
Undersökningar/prover - andra språk
Blodprov: PSA - engelska
PSA test for the prostate
The PSA test is a blood test that can show whether there are any changes in your prostate. Some changes are harmless, while others could lead to prostate cancer. A doctor can use a PSA test to find out whether you need additional examinations or treatments.
Läs texten på svenska här.
Why should I do a PSA test?
The prostate is located inside the body, above the penis. You can do a blood test called a PSA test if the doctor thinks there might be a change in your prostate.
If something in your prostate has changed, you may notice that you need to pee more often or that you pee with a weak stream. Seek medical care if this happens to you.
What can the PSA test show?
The prostate produces a protein called PSA, prostate-specific antigen. The test shows how much PSA is found in your blood. A lot of PSA in your blood could indicate that something in your prostate has changed.
You may have to undergo several examinations in order to receive the right treatment.
What can cause it?
It is common for something in the prostate to change in men over 50. It is usually not a reason to worry. But, a change could also be caused by inflammation, which is a kind of swelling, or even cancer.
Prostate cancer is the most common type of cancer in men. The risk of prostate cancer increases with age.
Some types of prostate cancer develop very slowly, without you even noticing. Other types of prostate cancer develop quickly. In such cases, you need to start treatment as soon as possible. There is a greater chance of recovery if the cancer is detected early.
You can bring a friend along or get the help of an interpreter
It is important that you understand what the staff tell you. If you do not speak Swedish, you may be entitled to an interpreter, which is a person who translates from your language into Swedish, and vice versa. The interpreter also has a duty to maintain patient confidentiality. If you would like an interpreter, please contact the clinic before your appointment.
You can bring a friend or family member along if you want. A friend or family member who translates for you is not an interpreter, and therefore does not have a duty to maintain patient confidentiality.
How the sample is taken
The sample for the PSA test is taken at a healthcare centre or a hospital. A nursing assistant will take the blood sample from your arm using a thin needle. Some people find this painful or uncomfortable, but it will be over quickly.
When will I get the test results?
You will get the results in a few weeks. You will get a letter or be contacted by phone. The letter will be sent to your official address of record. You will be asked to come in for a new examination if the test showed that something has changed.
Would you like to do a PSA test?
You can contact a healthcare centre if you would like to have a PSA test.
Feel free to call the 1177 hotline if you have any questions or need some advice by phone. The hotline is staffed by nurses. They can let you know whether you should seek medical care.
You can speak Swedish or English. The 1177 hotline is free of charge.
Share article
Share on facebook
Share on twitter
Share with a friend
Print page
Page Navigation
Why should I do a PSA test?
How the sample is taken
More content in English
English
You can read the content of 1177.se that is available in English here. Choose a region at the top of the page to find out what applies to you.
1177 in other languages
Here is a list of other languages that the material is available in. The page is available in English.
1177
–tryggt om din hälsa och vård
På 1177.se får du råd om hälsa och information om sjukdomar och vilka mottagningar du kan kontakta. Logga in för att läsa din journal och göra dina vårdärenden. Ring telefonnummer 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning dygnet runt.1177 ger dig råd när du vill må bättre.
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Behandling av personuppgifter
Hantering av kakor
Inställningar för kakor
1177 – en tjänst frånInera.