Till sidans huvudinnehåll
Besök 1177.se, logga in för personliga e-tjänster eller ring 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning.
Logga inat 1177.se
Hitta vårdat 1177.se
Searchat 1177.se
Menu
Liv & hälsa
Barn & gravid
Olyckor & skador
Sjukdomar & besvär
Undersökning & behandling
Så fungerar vården
Start
Other languages - andra språk
Tandvård
Tandvård om du är asylsökande eller inte har tillstånd att vara i Sverige - engelska
Dental care if you are an asylum seeker or do not have a permit to be in Sweden
If you are an adult asylum seeker in Sweden, you have a right to receive dental care that is deemed as urgent. This also applies if you are in Sweden without a permit. If you are under the age of 18, you always have the right to dental care.
Dental care is regarded as urgent if you need treatment to keep the problem from developing into an emergency. The dentist will decide whether the dental treatment you need is urgent.
If you come from another country and are seeking dental care in Sweden,you can read more here.
Läs textenpå svenska här.
How do I seek dental care?
Seek treatment at a dental clinic if you or a member of your family has a toothache.
LMA card if you are an asylum seeker
When you seek asylum, you will receive a special card from the Swedish Migration Agency (Migrationsverket). This is called an LMA card. You must present the card when you seek dental care.
Children also receive an LMA card when they seek asylum.
What should I do if I come from Ukraine?
Register with the Swedish Migration Agency if you are a refugee from Ukraine. You will then get the same dental care as people seeking asylum.
Present your UT card when you seek dental care
You will receive a special card when you register with the Swedish Migration Agency. This is called a UT card. You must present the card when you seek dental care. This applies to both adults and children.
If you are not registered with the Swedish Migration Agency
If you are not registered with the Swedish Migration Agency, you can receive emergency dental care, but will have to pay for it yourself.
How much does dental care cost?
For children under the age of 18, dental care is free of charge. Almost all examinations and treatments are covered.
Adults pay for dental care
If you are aged 18 or older, you pay a small fee for dental care that is deemed urgent.
Allowance from the Swedish Migration Agency
You can apply for an allowance from the Swedish Migration Agency for medical, dental and prescription medicine expenses. The allowance covers costs that exceed a set amount within a six-month period.
Interpretation into your language
You can get help from aninterpreter if you do not speak Swedish. Let the clinic know you need an interpreter when you book your appointment.
Share article
Share on facebook
Share on twitter
Share with a friend
Print page
Page Navigation
How do I seek dental care?
What should I do if I come from Ukraine?
How much does dental care cost?
Interpretation into your language
More content in English
English
You can read the content of 1177.se that is available in English here. Choose a region at the top of the page to find out what applies to you.
1177 in other languages
Here is a list of other languages that the material is available in. The page is available in English.
1177
–tryggt om din hälsa och vård
På 1177.se får du råd om hälsa och information om sjukdomar och vilka mottagningar du kan kontakta. Logga in för att läsa din journal och göra dina vårdärenden. Ring telefonnummer 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning dygnet runt.1177 ger dig råd när du vill må bättre.
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Behandling av personuppgifter
Hantering av kakor
Inställningar för kakor
1177 – en tjänst frånInera.