Till sidans huvudinnehåll
Besök 1177.se, logga in för personliga e-tjänster eller ring 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning.
Logga inat 1177.se
Hitta vårdat 1177.se
Searchat 1177.se
Menu
Liv & hälsa
Barn & gravid
Olyckor & skador
Sjukdomar & besvär
Undersökning & behandling
Så fungerar vården
Start
Other languages - andra språk
Symtom/sjukdom - andra språk
Tuberkulos – tbc - engelska
Tuberculosis – TB
Tuberculosis is a disease of the lungs. The disease causes coughing for several weeks. Most people recover completely with treatment.
Du kan läsa texten påsvenska här.
What are some signs that you may have tuberculosis in your lungs?
When you have tuberculosis in your lungs, it is common to cough up phlegm. You are usually sick for more than three weeks.
You may also have these symptoms:
You feel weak.
You feel tired.
You have a fever.
You sweat at night.
Some children become seriously ill
Children up to school age can become seriously ill from tuberculosis. They get a fever and feel weak.
Children between the ages of about six and twelve usually do not get very sick.They rarely have a cough. Their symptoms are often a fever for several weeks, and feeling tired and out of sorts.
From adolescence onwards, children can get as sick as adults, but often recover quickly with treatment.
When and where should I seek medical care?
Contact a healthcare provider if you think your child has tuberculosis. You should also contact a healthcare provider if your child is under six years of age and has been in contact with someone with TB. You should do this even if your child is not sick.
You can contact one of these clinics:
A healthcare centre(vårdcentral).
A paediatric clinic(barnläkarmottagning).
Call for advice
Call 1177 for help on what to do. Your call will be answered by a nurse. If needed, they can tell you where to go for treatment.
The nurse can speak both Swedish and English.
Get help from an interpreter
You can get help from an interpreter if you do not speak Swedish.  Let the clinic know you need an interpreter when you book your appointment.
Call 0046 771-11 77 00 if your phone does not have a Swedish subscription or SIM card, or if you are calling from another country.
How is tuberculosis transmitted?
Tuberculosisis caused by a bacterium that can be spread between people. When someone with tuberculosis in their lungs sneezes, coughs or spits, the bacteria can get into the air. When you breathe in that air, you can become infected.
It may take a long time before you get sick.
Tuberculosis is most often spread to people who haveclose contact with someone who has infectious TB. The bacteria are spread mainly within the family and others with whom the sick person lives. Children get sick more easily than adults, but do not infect others.Children up to school age are usually not infectious.
Treatment
There is good treatment for tuberculosis.
You will be treated with one or more medicines. It takes a long time to treat tuberculosis, often several months.
You can be vaccinated against tuberculosis
There is a vaccine against tuberculosis.Ask about it at a healthcare centre.
Share article
Share on facebook
Share on twitter
Share with a friend
Print page
Page Navigation
What are some signs that you may have tuberculosis in your lungs?
When and where should I seek medical care?
How is tuberculosis transmitted?
Treatment
You can be vaccinated against tuberculosis
More content in English
English
You can read the content of 1177.se that is available in English here. Choose a region at the top of the page to find out what applies to you.
1177 in other languages
Here is a list of other languages that the material is available in. The page is available in English.
1177
–tryggt om din hälsa och vård
På 1177.se får du råd om hälsa och information om sjukdomar och vilka mottagningar du kan kontakta. Logga in för att läsa din journal och göra dina vårdärenden. Ring telefonnummer 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning dygnet runt.1177 ger dig råd när du vill må bättre.
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Behandling av personuppgifter
Hantering av kakor
Inställningar för kakor
1177 – en tjänst frånInera.