Till sidans huvudinnehåll
Besök 1177.se, logga in för personliga e-tjänster eller ring 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning.
Logga inat 1177.se
Hitta vårdat 1177.se
Searchat 1177.se
Menu
Liv & hälsa
Barn & gravid
Olyckor & skador
Sjukdomar & besvär
Undersökning & behandling
Så fungerar vården
Start
Other languages - andra språk
Tandvård
Tandvård om du kommer från ett annat land - engelska
Dental care in Sweden if you come from another country
You may be entitled to dental care on the same terms as those who have Swedish dental insurance. How much you will have to pay depends, among other things, on which country you are from.
If you are an asylum seeker or do not have a permit to be in Sweden,you can read more here.
Läs textenpå svenska här.
Emergency or planned dental care
Dental care can be emergency or planned. Emergency dental care is treatment that cannot wait until you return home. All other dental care is planned.
It is the dentist who decides whether the treatment you need is considered emergency dental care. One example is if you damage a tooth. It then depends on how much pain you are in and how long you plan to be in Sweden.
If you are from an EU country, EEA country, Switzerland or the UK
The EEA includes Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein.
Emergency dental care
Present your EU card to receive emergency dental care.  You will then pay the same price as people insured in Sweden. You order an EU card in your home country. Children must also have an EU card.
If you do not have an EU card, there are two options:
You can request a provisional certificate from your country’s equivalent of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency (Försäkringskassan). This is a temporary certificate that works in the same way as an EU card.
You can pay the full cost and then apply to be reimbursed the money when you get home. Keep all the receipts from the dentist.
If you are insured in the UK, you will get a Health Insurance Card. This card gives you the same rights as an EU card.
Planned dental care in Sweden
You will need a certificate from your home country if you want planned dental care in Sweden. The certificate must state which dentist in Sweden will treat you and what treatment you will receive. You request the certificate from your country’s equivalent of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency.
Dental care if you come from a Nordic country
If you are from a Nordic country, you pay the same price for emergency dental care as people living in Sweden. This applies both if you are in Sweden on holiday or if you live here. You will need to show your passport or ID card and provide your home address.
The Nordic countries are:
Denmark
Finland
Norway
Faroe Islands
Greenland
Iceland
Åland
Free emergency dental care for children and young people
If you are a child or young person from an EU country, EEA country, Switzerland or the UK, you can receive emergency dental care in Sweden free of charge. This applies until 31 December of the year of your 23rd birthday. You will need to present your EU card.
Dental care for students
If you are from an EU country, EEA country, Switzerland or the UK and are studying in Sweden, you need to present your EU card to receive emergency dental care. You will then pay the same price as people insured in Sweden.
Swedes from abroad visiting Sweden
If you are a Swedish citizen living outside an EU country, EEA country, Switzerland or the UK, you will have to pay the full cost of dental care in Sweden. This applies to both emergency and planned dental care.
Interpretation into your language
You can get help from aninterpreter if you do not speak Swedish. Let the clinic know you need an interpreter when you book your appointment. There may sometimes be a charge for interpreter services.
Share article
Share on facebook
Share on twitter
Share with a friend
Print page
Page Navigation
Emergency or planned dental care
If you are from an EU country, EEA country, Switzerland or the UK
Dental care if you come from a Nordic country
Free emergency dental care for children and young people
Dental care for students
Swedes from abroad visiting Sweden
Interpretation into your language
More content in English
English
You can read the content of 1177.se that is available in English here. Choose a region at the top of the page to find out what applies to you.
1177 in other languages
Here is a list of other languages that the material is available in. The page is available in English.
1177
–tryggt om din hälsa och vård
På 1177.se får du råd om hälsa och information om sjukdomar och vilka mottagningar du kan kontakta. Logga in för att läsa din journal och göra dina vårdärenden. Ring telefonnummer 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning dygnet runt.1177 ger dig råd när du vill må bättre.
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Behandling av personuppgifter
Hantering av kakor
Inställningar för kakor
1177 – en tjänst frånInera.