Till sidans huvudinnehåll
Besök 1177.se, logga in för personliga e-tjänster eller ring 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning.
Logga inat 1177.se
Hitta vårdat 1177.se
Searchat 1177.se
Menu
Liv & hälsa
Barn & gravid
Olyckor & skador
Sjukdomar & besvär
Undersökning & behandling
Så fungerar vården
Start
Other languages - andra språk
Förlossning
Framfall efter att du har fött barn - engelska
Prolapse after giving birth
During a prolapse, something is bulging out through the opening of the vagina. This could be the uterus or the inside of the vagina (birth canal). It may feel uncomfortable, but there is treatment that can help.
Prolapse may be caused by the opening of the vagina becoming larger after pregnancy.
Läs textenpå svenska här.
How it may feel
These are examples of symptoms:
There is a feeling of heaviness or pain in your pelvic area.
You may develop chafing on the part that is bulging out.
You may have difficulty peeing. You may also feel an urge to pee more frequently, or pee yourself.
You may find it difficult to poo. You may also need to pass wind more frequently or have a problem with poo leaking out.
The symptoms you have will depend on which organ is causing the bulge in your vagina. The symptoms will lessen when you lie down.
When and where should I seek medical care?
Contact a healthcare provider if you think you have a prolapse.If it is the weekend, you can wait until it is a weekday.
Get help from an interpreter
You can get help from an interpreter if you do not speak Swedish.  Let the clinic know you need an interpreter when you book your appointment.
If urgent care is needed
You may need medical attention more urgently if the following applies:
You are having a lot of trouble peeing, or cannot pee at all.
Contact one of these clinics:
The maternitywardwhere you gave birth.
Anurgent care centre.
Amidwifery clinic (barnmorskemottagning).
Agynaecology clinic.
Ahealthcare centre (vårdcentral).
If they are closed or cannot attend to you, seek care from an emergency department.
Call 1177 for advice
Call 1177 for help on what to do.Your call will be answered by a nurse.The nurse can speak both Swedish and English. Help is sometimes available in other languages.Call 0046 771-11 77 00 if you are calling from a phone with a foreign number.
Self-help tips
Here are some tips that can ease the symptoms or reduce the risk of a prolapse:
Train the muscles of your vagina. Such exercises are calledpelvic floor exercises or Kegel exercises.
Avoid heavy lifting.
Here are tips that can make it easier to poo:
Eat foods high in fibre and drink plenty of fluids. This will make your poo softer and easier to get out.
Go to the toilet immediately when you feel a need to poo.
Put a stool under your feet when you sit on the toilet. This will make it easier for your bowels to get the poo out.
It may help to hold your finger against your vagina while trying to poo.
Here is a tip that can make it easier to pee:
After you pee, you can stand up and lean forward. Then sit down and try to pee again.
Examinations
The doctor will perform agynaecological examinationandan ultrasound scan. The doctor may also examine your rectum by inserting a gloved finger.
You will also be asked to provide a urine sample.
Some people may need additional examinations or give other samples.
Treatment
You may be given a special plastic ring to put in your vagina. The ring is used to prevent the bulging. A midwife will help you to insert the ring into your vagina.
You may undergo surgery if your symptoms are more severe.
Pregnancy
It is possible to get pregnant and carry a baby in your womb even if you have a prolapse. Talk to a doctor or midwife (barnmorska) if you are planning to become pregnant.
Having sex
It is not harmful to haveintercourseif you have a prolapse.
Share article
Share on facebook
Share on twitter
Share with a friend
Print page
Page Navigation
How it may feel
When and where should I seek medical care?
Self-help tips
Examinations
Treatment
Pregnancy
Having sex
More content in English
English
You can read the content of 1177.se that is available in English here. Choose a region at the top of the page to find out what applies to you.
1177 in other languages
Here is a list of other languages that the material is available in. The page is available in English.
1177
–tryggt om din hälsa och vård
På 1177.se får du råd om hälsa och information om sjukdomar och vilka mottagningar du kan kontakta. Logga in för att läsa din journal och göra dina vårdärenden. Ring telefonnummer 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning dygnet runt.1177 ger dig råd när du vill må bättre.
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Behandling av personuppgifter
Hantering av kakor
Inställningar för kakor
1177 – en tjänst frånInera.