Till sidans huvudinnehåll
Besök 1177.se, logga in för personliga e-tjänster eller ring 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning.
Logga inat 1177.se
Hitta vårdat 1177.se
Searchat 1177.se
Menu
Liv & hälsa
Barn & gravid
Olyckor & skador
Sjukdomar & besvär
Undersökning & behandling
Så fungerar vården
Start
Other languages - andra språk
Förlossning
Blödningar efter förlossningen - engelska
Bleeding after giving birth
Everyone bleeds from the vagina after childbirth. The blood comes from a wound in the uterus. The wound occurs when the placenta detaches from the uterus. Some people who experience problems with bleeding may need to seek medical attention.
Du kan läsa texten på svenska här.
The blood that comes after childbirth may be called discharge (avslag).
Typical bleeding after childbirth
The first few days after giving birth, the bleeding is similar to that of a heavy period.More blood may come when you are active and moving around.
More blood may come when you have been lying still and then get up. There may also be clots of blood.
You will bleed less and less
The bleeding will decrease over time. After a while, the blood will become more brown in colour. Gradually, it will become lighter brown.
The bleeding will stop after about six to eight weeks.
Self-help tips
Here are some tips during this period of bleeding:
Take a shower instead of a bath.
Do not use period products that are inserted into the vagina, like tampons or menstrual cups.
Use acondomif you have vaginal intercourse.
When and where should I seek medical care?
Most people do not need medical care for bleeding after childbirth.Seek medical care if any of the following applies to you:
You are bleeding more than you did the first day after giving birth.
You have large clots or many clots of blood.
The amount of blood saturates a regular sanitary towel within an hour.
Seek medical care at thematernitywardwhere you gave birth.
If they cannot attend to you, seek care from an emergency department.
Call 1177for advice
Call 1177 for help on what to do.Your call will be answered by a nurse.The nurse can speak both Swedish and English. Help is sometimes available in other languages.Call +46 771 11 77 00 if you are calling from a phone with a foreign number.
Why is there blood?
When you are pregnant, a placenta forms and attaches to the uterus. When the baby is born, the placenta detaches from the uterus, creating a wound.
After childbirth, the uterus contracts and gets smaller. The wound also gets smaller and heals.
Some people need treatment
If you bleed a lot, it may be because your uterus is not contracting properly. There may also be pieces of placenta left inside the uterus.
In such case, you may need treatment with medicine.
Share article
Share on facebook
Share on twitter
Share with a friend
Print page
Page Navigation
Typical bleeding after childbirth
Self-help tips
When and where should I seek medical care?
Why is there blood?
More content in English
English
You can read the content of 1177.se that is available in English here. Choose a region at the top of the page to find out what applies to you.
1177 in other languages
Here is a list of other languages that the material is available in. The page is available in English.
1177
–tryggt om din hälsa och vård
På 1177.se får du råd om hälsa och information om sjukdomar och vilka mottagningar du kan kontakta. Logga in för att läsa din journal och göra dina vårdärenden. Ring telefonnummer 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning dygnet runt.1177 ger dig råd när du vill må bättre.
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Behandling av personuppgifter
Hantering av kakor
Inställningar för kakor
1177 – en tjänst frånInera.