Till sidans huvudinnehåll
Besök 1177.se, logga in för personliga e-tjänster eller ring 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning.
Logga inat 1177.se
Hitta vårdat 1177.se
Searchat 1177.se
Menu
Liv & hälsa
Barn & gravid
Olyckor & skador
Sjukdomar & besvär
Undersökning & behandling
Så fungerar vården
Start
Other languages - andra språk
Söka vård - andra språk
Så fungerar vården i Sverige - engelska
How healthcare works in Sweden
If you or someone in your family needs medical care, you can usually get help at a healthcare centre (vårdcentral) . Call 1177 if you are unsure where to seek care. You can choose to speak Swedish or English. The nurse who answers the 1177 helpline can also give you advice on what you can do yourself to feel better.
Läs texten på svenska här.
Healthcare in Sweden is governed by different areas called regions. Choose a region at the top of the page to find out what applies where you live.
This text contains links to 1177.se , where you can search for healthcare clinics. The information is in Swedish. Ask someone who speaks Swedish for help if you need it. Read more about1177 in this text.
There is a healthcare centre close to where you live
A healthcare centre is a clinic that is usually close to where you live. It may also be called a health centre (hälsocentral), a GP surgery (husläkarmottagning) or a doctor’s office (familjeläkarmottagning).
A healthcare centre is staffed by doctors, nurses, and other healthcare professionals. They can help if you or someone in your family is sick or depressed.
The healthcare centre is open on weekdays
The healthcare centre is always open during the day from Monday to Friday. Some healthcare centres may also be open at other times.
You usually need to make an appointment before you come.
You can search for a healthcare centre near youhere. The page is in Swedish.
Urgent care centres during evenings and weekends
If you need to seek care when the healthcare centre is closed, you can turn to an urgent care centre. These are open evenings and weekends.
You can search for an urgent care centrehere. The page is in Swedish.
An emergency department when you are seriously ill
If you are seriously injured or become very ill, seek care at an emergency department of a hospital. They are open 24 hours a day. You do not need to make an appointment beforehand.
In an emergency department, the sickest people get help first. This means that if you are not seriously ill, you may have to wait to receive care.
112 - Emergencies
Call 112 if the matter is very urgent, or if your or someone else’s life is in danger.
The person who answers can speak Swedish and English, but can get help from an interpreter if needed. An ambulance will be sent if you or someone who is ill needs urgent care at an emergency department.
Centres for children
There are special centres for children up to the age of six. These are called child health centres (barnavårdscentraler). A child may go there regularly, and will also receive their vaccinations there. You can search for a child health centre here. The page is in Swedish.
In some places, there are special hospitals and emergency departments for children.
Centres for young people
A youth guidance centre (ungdomsmottagning) is for young people between the ages of 13 and 25. There, you can get help with things like contraception, pregnancy tests, sexually transmitted diseases, counselling and advice.
Read more atyoumo.se.
You can find a youth guidance centrehere. The page is in Swedish.
Centres for women
There are special centres for women. These are called midwifery clinics (barnmorskemottagning), maternity centres (mödravårdscentral) or women’s clinics (kvinnohälsovård). At these centres, you can get advice, and help with contraception and testing for various diseases, for example. You can also come for check-ups if you are pregnant.
When you are due to give birth, you may go to a maternity ward. They are open 24 hours a day.
You can search for a midwifery clinichere. The page is in Swedish.
Other clinics
You may sometimes need care at another clinic, such as a dermatology clinic for your skin, a psychiatric clinic for mental health or an eye clinic for your eyes.
For such a visit, you may need what is known as a referral. A referral contains information about the examination or treatment you require. The healthcare professional you see at the healthcare centre can send the referral.
You may have to wait for some time for an appointment at one of these clinics.
Dental care centres
Dental care is often more expensive than other care. Ask about the cost before you visit. Children and young people usually get dental care for free.
You can find a dental care centrehere. The page is in Swedish.
How much does healthcare cost?
The amount you pay when seeking healthcare in Sweden varies. For example, it costs more to seek care at an emergency department than at a healthcare centre.
The cost also varies depending on your age, and whether you live in Sweden or come from another country.
There is often no charge for children and young people.
Ask for an interpreter to get help in your language
You may be entitled to an interpreter if you do not speak Swedish. The interpreter is sworn to secrecy.
You will not have to pay for assistance by an interpreter. Contact your healthcare clinic before you go to get help in your language.
You have the right to feel safe when using healthcare services
All staff are sworn to secrecy. This means that staff are not allowed to tell anyone outside of healthcare anything about you. This secrecy applies to all healthcare staff you meet, including interpreters and pharmacy staff.
When you seek care, you need to say your name and who you are. If you have any documents that prove your identity, it is a good idea to take them with you.
The site youmo.se contains information on secrecy and confidentiality for young people. The text is available in several languages.
Share article
Share on facebook
Share on twitter
Share with a friend
Print page
Page Navigation
There is a healthcare centre close to where you live
Urgent care centres during evenings and weekends
An emergency department when you are seriously ill
112 - Emergencies
Centres for children
Centres for young people
Centres for women
Other clinics
Dental care centres
How much does healthcare cost?
Ask for an interpreter to get help in your language
You have the right to feel safe when using healthcare services
More content in English
English
You can read the content of 1177.se that is available in English here. Choose a region at the top of the page to find out what applies to you.
1177 in other languages
Here is a list of other languages that the material is available in. The page is available in English.
1177
–tryggt om din hälsa och vård
På 1177.se får du råd om hälsa och information om sjukdomar och vilka mottagningar du kan kontakta. Logga in för att läsa din journal och göra dina vårdärenden. Ring telefonnummer 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning dygnet runt.1177 ger dig råd när du vill må bättre.
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Behandling av personuppgifter
Hantering av kakor
Inställningar för kakor
1177 – en tjänst frånInera.