Till sidans huvudinnehåll
Besök 1177.se, logga in för personliga e-tjänster eller ring 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning.
Logga inat 1177.se
Hitta vårdat 1177.se
Searchat 1177.se
Menu
Liv & hälsa
Barn & gravid
Olyckor & skador
Sjukdomar & besvär
Undersökning & behandling
Så fungerar vården
Start
Other languages - andra språk
Graviditet - andra språk
Havandeskapsförgiftning - engelska
Pre-eclampsia
Pre-eclampsia is a condition you can get when you are pregnant. It is characterised by high blood pressure. It can affect both you and your baby. You may require rest and medicine to lower your blood pressure.
Du kan läsa texten påsvenska här.
Pre-eclampsia is sometimes called pregnancy-induced hypertension and toxaemia.
Symptoms
Many people do not notice any symptoms of the condition. It is the midwife who detects it during acheck-up.
When and where should I seek medical care?
When you are pregnant, you willvisit the midwifery clinic (barnmorskemottagningen)several times.If you develop pre-eclampsia, you will need to come in for extra check-ups.
If you need urgent care
People who develop the condition usually have it towards the end of their pregnancy – usually during the last six weeks. But it can develop earlier than this.
You may need medical attention more urgently if any of the following apply:
You suddenly get a headache that does not feel normal.
You have problems with your eyesight.
You have a lot of pain in the upper part of your stomach, especially on the right side under your ribs.
You feel nauseated and vomit during the second half of your pregnancy.
Your face, hands or feet swell up. The swelling comes on suddenly.
You feel generally unwell.
Contact one of these clinics:
A midwifery clinic.
An out-of-hours service.
If it is closed or they cannot attend to you, seek care from one of these clinics:
An emergency department if the condition occurs during the first half of your pregnancy.
A maternity ward if the condition occurs during the second half of your pregnancy.
Call1177for advice
Call the1177helpline if you need advice on what to do.
Your call will be answered by a nurse. The nurse can speak both Swedish and English.Help is sometimes available in other languages.
Call +46 771 11 77 00 if you are calling from a phone with a foreign number.
Self-help tips
If you have pre-eclampsia, it is important to rest and take it easy.
Examinations
A midwife will measure your blood pressure when you visit the midwifery clinic.You will be asked to provide aurine sample.You may also be examined by ultrasound. This examination can show images of the baby in your womb.You may also be examined using a device that measures your baby’s heart rate. This is called aCTG.
You can get help from an interpreter
You can get help from an interpreter if you do not speak Swedish.Let the clinic know you need an interpreter when you book your appointment.
Treatments
Some people may be given a medicine called blood thinner early in the pregnancy. This may be done, for example, if you had pre-eclampsia in a previous pregnancy. The medicine may prevent you from developing the condition again.
If you have developed pre-eclampsia, you may be given medicine to lower your blood pressure.Some people are hospitalised. This makes it easier for healthcare workers to monitor your blood pressure and how you are feeling.
If rest and treatment are not sufficient, the baby may need to be delivered early.
After the baby is born
Pre-eclampsia will go away after the baby is born.Some people need to take medicines for a few months after giving birth.
You may be more likely to develop certain diseases later in life.For example, you may be more likely to develop diseases of the heart and blood vessels, called cardiovascular diseases.That is why it is a good idea to maintain a healthy lifestyle, as then you are less likely to get sick.
Share article
Share on facebook
Share on twitter
Share with a friend
Print page
Page Navigation
Symptoms
When and where should I seek medical care?
Self-help tips
Examinations
Treatments
After the baby is born
More content in English
English
You can read the content of 1177.se that is available in English here. Choose a region at the top of the page to find out what applies to you.
1177 in other languages
Here is a list of other languages that the material is available in. The page is available in English.
1177
–tryggt om din hälsa och vård
På 1177.se får du råd om hälsa och information om sjukdomar och vilka mottagningar du kan kontakta. Logga in för att läsa din journal och göra dina vårdärenden. Ring telefonnummer 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning dygnet runt.1177 ger dig råd när du vill må bättre.
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Behandling av personuppgifter
Hantering av kakor
Inställningar för kakor
1177 – en tjänst frånInera.