Till sidans huvudinnehåll
Besök 1177.se, logga in för personliga e-tjänster eller ring 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning.
Logga inat 1177.se
Hitta vårdat 1177.se
Searchat 1177.se
Menu
Liv & hälsa
Barn & gravid
Olyckor & skador
Sjukdomar & besvär
Undersökning & behandling
Så fungerar vården
Start
Other languages - andra språk
Att ta hand om barn
Vaccinationsprogrammet för barn - engelska
Vaccination programme for children
All children in Sweden are offered vaccination against 12 diseases. This is done to protect the child from becoming seriously ill. These vaccinations are offered free of charge.
Läs textenpå svenska här.
What diseases are children vaccinated against?
All children in Sweden are offered vaccination against the following diseases:
diphtheria
whooping cough
tetanus
polio
Hib – haemophilus influenzae type b
pneumococcus
measles
mumps
rubella
rotavirus
hepatitis B
HPV – human papillomavirus.
Children often receive several vaccines in a single shot.
Vaccines protect against serious diseases
Vaccines protect children from getting seriously ill with the listed diseases.
The vaccinealso preventsthe diseases from spreading.
Vaccines are safe medicines
You are free to choose whether to have your child vaccinated or not.
The healthcare system recommends that everyone do so.
Vaccines are safe medicines.
When is the child vaccinated?
Children are vaccinated on a number of different occasions as they grow up.
The first vaccination is given at six weeks of age.
Children who have moved to Sweden from other countries
The vaccines children receive vary in different countries.
Children born outside of Sweden may need additional vaccines.
If you have any questions about your child's vaccinations, please contact one of the following:
children's health centre (barnavårdscentralen, BVC)
school health service (elevhälsan)
a healthcare centre (vårdcentral).
How can I prepare my child?
It is good if your child is well rested and has eaten before the vaccination.
However, a child who is going to be vaccinated against rotavirus should not eat beforehand.
If your child is worried
Some children may be afraid of needles or that it will hurt.
Tell the child that the vaccination will be quick. It may hurt a little, but it will pass quickly.
If your child is sick
Contact the BVC or the school health service if your child is going to be vaccinated, but is ill. You may need to reschedule the appointment.
How does the vaccination work?
Children up to the age of five are vaccinated at the BVC.
Children who have started school receive the vaccine via the school health service.
The child is given a shot
Children under the age of one are given the shot in their thigh.
Children over the age of one are given the shot in their upper arm.
The rotavirus vaccine is given in the mouth
The vaccine against rotavirus is in the form of drops.
Children are given this vaccine in the mouth.
The liquid has a sweet taste.
How will my child feel afterwards?
There may be some pain at the site where your child received the shot.
It is common for a child to feel a little sick after getting vaccinated. For example, the child may get a fever. This usually passes fairly quickly.
After the rotavirus vaccination, your child may feel sick and have a stomachache.
When and where should I seek medical care?
Most people who have been vaccinated do not need to seek medical care.
If you have any questions or concerns, contact the clinic where your child received the vaccination.
Call the1177 helplineif you need adviceon what to do. Your call will be answered by a nurse. The nurse can speak both Swedish and English. Help is sometimes available in other languages. Call +46 771 11 77 00 if you are calling from a phone with a foreign number.
If urgent care is needed
If your child has a lot of stomach pain, contact a healthcare provider immediately. Contact one of these clinics:
a healthcare centre (vårdcentral)
an out-of-hours service.
If they are closed, seek care at an emergency department.
Call 112 if your child becomes completely limp.
Share article
Share on facebook
Share on twitter
Share with a friend
Print page
Page Navigation
What diseases are children vaccinated against?
Vaccines protect against serious diseases
When is the child vaccinated?
Children who have moved to Sweden from other countries
How can I prepare my child?
How does the vaccination work?
How will my child feel afterwards?
When and where should I seek medical care?
More content in English
English
You can read the content of 1177.se that is available in English here. Choose a region at the top of the page to find out what applies to you.
1177 in other languages
Here is a list of other languages that the material is available in. The page is available in English.
1177
–tryggt om din hälsa och vård
På 1177.se får du råd om hälsa och information om sjukdomar och vilka mottagningar du kan kontakta. Logga in för att läsa din journal och göra dina vårdärenden. Ring telefonnummer 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning dygnet runt.1177 ger dig råd när du vill må bättre.
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Behandling av personuppgifter
Hantering av kakor
Inställningar för kakor
1177 – en tjänst frånInera.