Till sidans huvudinnehåll
Besök 1177.se, logga in för personliga e-tjänster eller ring 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning.
Logga inat 1177.se
Hitta vårdat 1177.se
Searchat 1177.se
Menu
Liv & hälsa
Barn & gravid
Olyckor & skador
Sjukdomar & besvär
Undersökning & behandling
Så fungerar vården
Start
Other languages - andra språk
Förlossning
Hur du upplevde din förlossning - engelska
Your feelings about your childbirth experience
It is common to feel many emotions after giving birth. That is why it can be helpful to talk about your childbirth experience with a midwife or doctor. You can get more support if you need it.
Feelings about the childbirth experience vary from person to person.
The same is true about the need and desire to talk about the birth.
Läs textenpå svenska här.
Talk to a midwife or doctor at the hospital
After giving birth, you can talk to a midwife or doctor while still at the hospital. You can ask questions and have them answered.
Your partner or someone else close to you can be present for this.
Sometimes the midwife will ask questions
After some births, the midwife will usually ask how the person is feeling, both physically and emotionally.
For example, this may be if the baby was born by an unplanned caesarean section. Another example is if the baby needed extra care after birth.
If you need to talk, let a member of staff know, if they have not asked you already.
After you come home
A few weeks after you come home, you willvisit a midwifery clinic to meet with a midwife.
At that time, you will talk about your childbirth experience and how you are feeling.
You and the midwife will read and discuss your medical records from the birth. These records are the notes that the staff made about the time you spent in hospital.
If you need more support and help
You can receive support and help if you are not doing well physically or emotionally after the birth.
The midwife will help you if you need to see a doctor. You can also get help to see another type of healthcare provider, such as a psychologist or physiotherapist.
The first week after the birth, you can contact the hospital where you gave birth.
After a week, you can contact a midwifery clinic. You can find alist of midwifery clinics here. The information is in Swedish.
Share article
Share on facebook
Share on twitter
Share with a friend
Print page
Page Navigation
Talk to a midwife or doctor at the hospital
After you come home
If you need more support and help
More content in English
English
You can read the content of 1177.se that is available in English here. Choose a region at the top of the page to find out what applies to you.
1177 in other languages
Here is a list of other languages that the material is available in. The page is available in English.
1177
–tryggt om din hälsa och vård
På 1177.se får du råd om hälsa och information om sjukdomar och vilka mottagningar du kan kontakta. Logga in för att läsa din journal och göra dina vårdärenden. Ring telefonnummer 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning dygnet runt.1177 ger dig råd när du vill må bättre.
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Behandling av personuppgifter
Hantering av kakor
Inställningar för kakor
1177 – en tjänst frånInera.