Till sidans huvudinnehåll
Besök 1177.se, logga in för personliga e-tjänster eller ring 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning.
Logga inat 1177.se
Hitta vårdat 1177.se
Searchat 1177.se
Menu
Liv & hälsa
Barn & gravid
Olyckor & skador
Sjukdomar & besvär
Undersökning & behandling
Så fungerar vården
Start
Other languages - andra språk
Förlossning
Mens efter du har fött barn - engelska
Menstruation after giving birth
When you start getting your period again after giving birth varies from one person to another. It is possible to become pregnant before you have started menstruating again.
Läs textenpå svenska här.
The initial period of bleeding after childbirth is not menstrual blood
For a period of time after giving birth,blood will come out of your vagina. This is not menstrual blood like when you have your period.
How long will it take before my period starts again?
The amount of time it takes for your period to start again varies.
If you are not breastfeeding, it usually takes six to eight weeks before you start menstruating again.
If you are breastfeeding, it usually takes longer. However, most people who breastfeed begin menstruating again within six months.
For some, it may take up to a year before their period starts again.
What your period may be like
It is common to have heavier or lighter periods than before you became pregnant. It is also common for the amount of pain during your period to increase or decrease.
It is possible to become pregnant before you have started menstruating again
It is possible to become pregnant again even if your period has not returned yet.
Before your first period, you will ovulate and can get pregnant at that time.
Contraception to prevent pregnancy
Use contraception if you do not want to get pregnant.
Everyone who has given birth is given an appointment for apostnatal visit to a midwife. At the visit, you can discuss contraception if you like.
Discharge – fluid from your vagina
Discharge is a slimy fluid from your vagina. It can be whitish or translucent.
Discharge is natural. It is common to have discharge every day.
Some people may have more discharge or discharge that is thicker than before pregnancy.
When and where should I seek medical care?
Seek care if your period has not returned one year after giving birth.
Contact a midwifery clinic or a gynaecologist.
Contact a midwifery clinic if your discharge smells very bad or if you have a lot of itching in your vaginal area. This could be a sign of infection.
Call 1177 for advice
You can call the 1177 helpline if youneed adviceon what to do. Your call will be answered by a nurse. If needed, they can tell you where to go for treatment.
The nurse can speak both Swedish and English. Help is sometimes available in other languages.
Call 0046 771 11 77 00 if you are calling from a phone with a foreign number.
Get help from an interpreter
If you do not speak Swedish, you can get help from aninterpreterduring your healthcare visits. Let the clinic know you need an interpreter when you book your appointment.
Share article
Share on facebook
Share on twitter
Share with a friend
Print page
Page Navigation
The initial period of bleeding after childbirth is not menstrual blood
How long will it take before my period starts again?
It is possible to become pregnant before you have started menstruating again
Discharge – fluid from your vagina
When and where should I seek medical care?
Get help from an interpreter
More content in English
English
You can read the content of 1177.se that is available in English here. Choose a region at the top of the page to find out what applies to you.
1177 in other languages
Here is a list of other languages that the material is available in. The page is available in English.
1177
–tryggt om din hälsa och vård
På 1177.se får du råd om hälsa och information om sjukdomar och vilka mottagningar du kan kontakta. Logga in för att läsa din journal och göra dina vårdärenden. Ring telefonnummer 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning dygnet runt.1177 ger dig råd när du vill må bättre.
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Behandling av personuppgifter
Hantering av kakor
Inställningar för kakor
1177 – en tjänst frånInera.