Till sidans huvudinnehåll
Besök 1177.se, logga in för personliga e-tjänster eller ring 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning.
Logga inat 1177.se
Hitta vårdat 1177.se
Searchat 1177.se
Menu
Liv & hälsa
Barn & gravid
Olyckor & skador
Sjukdomar & besvär
Undersökning & behandling
Så fungerar vården
Start
Other languages - andra språk
Att ta hand om barn
Undersökningar av det nyfödda barnet - engelska
Examinations of your newborn baby
A newborn baby is examined in a number of different ways during its first few days of life. Most of the examinations are done in hospital before you go home. You may need to come back for examinations if you have gone home early.
The timing of some of the examinations may vary. It depends, for example, on how you and your baby are doing.
Läs texten på svenskahär.
Immediately after birth
Your baby will be examined several times immediately after birth.
Among other things, the staff will listen to your baby’s heartbeat and their breathing.
Your baby will receive treatment if necessary.
The baby can usually be held by a parent during this time. Sometimes the baby will need to be examined on a special table.
A midwife will examine your baby
A midwife will examine your baby a few hours after birth. The examination will include the following:
The baby will be weighed and measured.
The baby’s body temperature will be measured.
A special substance in the blood will be measured. The midwife measures this using a meter on the skin. Sometimes a blood test is needed. If the value is high, the baby may need treatment.
The baby will be given a shot of vitamin K in their thigh.
Sometimes blood sugar is measured.
A paediatrician will examine your baby
All babies are examined by a paediatrician before they go home. The examination is quick.
The paediatrician looks at and listens to the following:
the heart
the lungs and breathing
the stomach
the eyes
the head
the genitals and rectum
the skin.
If you gave birth at home
A paediatrician should examine your baby as soon as possible after birth.
Talk to a midwife before the birth to plan an appointment.
PKU test
After two days, a blood test called a PKU test is performed. A blood sample for the test is taken from a blood vessel in the baby’s hand or foot.
The test is performed to check whether the baby has any unusual diseases.
It is good for the baby to have nursed shortly before the sample is taken, because the baby will then be calm and it will hurt less. Sometimes the baby may have sugar water in their mouth while the sample is taken.
Examination of your baby’s hearing
The midwife will examine your baby’s hearing. The examination is usually done while the baby is sleeping.
POX screening
During the POX screening, a device is connected to your baby’s hand or foot. It is held in place with a clip or adhesive tape.
The examination is done to check whether your baby has a congenital heart defect.
It is quick and painless.
Your baby’s first pee and poo
The hospital staff will check whether your baby has peed and pooped before you go home.
Here you can see pictures of how a baby’s pee and poo change colour in the first week. The text is in Swedish.
The children’s health centre takes over
After you have come home from hospital, you will have your first contact with thechildren’s health centre (BVC). A BVC nurse will then make a home visit.
Get help from an interpreter
You may be entitled to aninterpreterif you do not speak Swedish.
Share article
Share on facebook
Share on twitter
Share with a friend
Print page
Page Navigation
Immediately after birth
A midwife will examine your baby
A paediatrician will examine your baby
PKU test
Examination of your baby’s hearing
POX screening
Your baby’s first pee and poo
The children’s health centre takes over
Get help from an interpreter
More content in English
English
You can read the content of 1177.se that is available in English here. Choose a region at the top of the page to find out what applies to you.
1177 in other languages
Here is a list of other languages that the material is available in. The page is available in English.
1177
–tryggt om din hälsa och vård
På 1177.se får du råd om hälsa och information om sjukdomar och vilka mottagningar du kan kontakta. Logga in för att läsa din journal och göra dina vårdärenden. Ring telefonnummer 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning dygnet runt.1177 ger dig råd när du vill må bättre.
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Behandling av personuppgifter
Hantering av kakor
Inställningar för kakor
1177 – en tjänst frånInera.