Till sidans huvudinnehåll
Besök 1177.se, logga in för personliga e-tjänster eller ring 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning.
Logga inat 1177.se
Hitta vårdat 1177.se
Searchat 1177.se
Menu
Liv & hälsa
Barn & gravid
Olyckor & skador
Sjukdomar & besvär
Undersökning & behandling
Så fungerar vården
Start
Other languages - andra språk
Förlossning
Bristningar vid förlossningar - andra språk - engelska
Vaginal tears in childbirth
Vaginal tears are common in childbirth. Some tears are more severe and require stitches. Tears can be small or large. The tears are immediately taken care of after childbirth by a midwife (barnmorska) or doctor.
The midwife will tell you whether you have a vaginal tear that requires stitches.
You can ask to see an illustration of the vagina, where the midwife can point out where the tear is located.
Läs textenpå svenska här.
How it feels
Here are some common issues when you have vaginal tears:
Vaginal pain.
Bleeding from the vagina.
The stitches chafe.
Trouble peeing or pooing.
These issues usually get better and better as each day passes. The worst of the pain usually goes away after a week.But it can take up to a year to fully recover.
Treatment
If the vaginal tears require stitches, this will be done immediately after birth.
The stitches will dissolve or fall away on their own within a few weeks.
Return visit to the midwifery clinic (barnmorskemottagningen)
Within 12 weeks of giving birth, youwillhave a return visit to the midwifery clinic. At this visit, you can talk to the midwife about your vaginal tears.
When and where should I seek medical care?
Some people cannot wait until it is time for the return visit to the midwifery clinic to seek help for their vaginal tears. They need to seek care before the return visit.
Some do not discover their vaginal tears until later. In such cases, it is fine to seek care after the return visit.
Contact your healthcare provider if any of the following applies to you:
Your symptoms are getting worse instead of better.
The vaginal tear is affecting your life and how you are feeling.
It hurts when you have to poo or pee.
You are having problems with the stitches in your vagina.
If it is the weekend, you can wait until it is a weekday.
You may need to seek medical care more urgently if any of the following applies to you:
The wounds in your vagina become more swollen and start to hurt.
You get a fever or feel sick.
You are having trouble peeing.
Where to seek care
Contact one of these clinics:
The maternitywardwhere you gave birth.
An urgent care centre.
Amidwifery clinic.
Agynaecology clinic (gynekologisk mottagning).
Ahealthcare centre.
If they are closed or cannot attend to you, seek care from an emergency department.
Call 1177 for advice
Call the 1177 helpline for advice on what to do.
Your call will be answered by a nurse.
The nurse can speak both Swedish and English. Help is sometimes available in other languages.
Call 0046 771-11 77 00 if you are calling from a phone with a foreign number.
Seek care more than once if necessary
Seek medical care again if you do not feel like you are getting better from the treatment you are receiving.
Help is often available, even if a long time has passed since you had your baby.
Get help from an interpreter
You can get help from an interpreter if you do not speak Swedish.  Let the clinic know you need an interpreter when you book your appointment.
Self-help tips
Self-help tips as your vaginal tears heal:
Take it easy and rest.
Use painkillers if you are in pain.Lie down while breastfeeding if it hurts to sit.
Move around. For example, you can go for walks.
Take a shower instead of a bath. Do not use soap in your vagina. Pat yourself gently with a towel when drying off.
Go around without tight clothes and underwear sometimes, if possible. It helps to allow air to reach your vagina.
Train the muscles of your vagina. Such exercises are calledpelvic floor exercises or Kegel exercises.
Wait to haveintercourseuntil your vagina feels completely healed. This can take weeks or months.
You can takeover-the-counter medicineif you have pain. You can ask about this at a pharmacy.
Share article
Share on facebook
Share on twitter
Share with a friend
Print page
Page Navigation
How it feels
Treatment
Return visit to the midwifery clinic (barnmorskemottagningen)
When and where should I seek medical care?
Self-help tips
More content in English
English
You can read the content of 1177.se that is available in English here. Choose a region at the top of the page to find out what applies to you.
1177 in other languages
Here is a list of other languages that the material is available in. The page is available in English.
1177
–tryggt om din hälsa och vård
På 1177.se får du råd om hälsa och information om sjukdomar och vilka mottagningar du kan kontakta. Logga in för att läsa din journal och göra dina vårdärenden. Ring telefonnummer 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning dygnet runt.1177 ger dig råd när du vill må bättre.
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Behandling av personuppgifter
Hantering av kakor
Inställningar för kakor
1177 – en tjänst frånInera.