Till sidans huvudinnehåll
Besök 1177.se, logga in för personliga e-tjänster eller ring 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning.
Logga inat 1177.se
Hitta vårdat 1177.se
Searchat 1177.se
Menu
Liv & hälsa
Barn & gravid
Olyckor & skador
Sjukdomar & besvär
Undersökning & behandling
Så fungerar vården
Start
Other languages - andra språk
Graviditet - engelska
Pregnancy
Current articles
Common discomforts during pregnancyVanliga besvär under en graviditet - engelskaWhen you are pregnant, your body is affected in different ways. This may give rise to different discomforts, which will usually disappear after you give birth.
Common discomforts during pregnancy
When you are pregnant, your body is affected in different ways. This may give rise to different discomforts, which will usually disappear after you give birth.
AbortionAbort - engelskaAn abortion is when a person chooses to end their pregnancy. It is the pregnant person's decision whether they want to have an abortion. This is called the right to choose abortion.
Abortion
An abortion is when a person chooses to end their pregnancy. It is the pregnant person's decision whether they want to have an abortion. This is called the right to choose abortion.
Nausea during pregnancyAtt må illa under graviditeten - engelskaIt is common to feel nauseous and vomit when you are pregnant. Many people call this morning sickness. Although unpleasant, it is not harmful to you or your baby. There are some things you can do to feel better.
Nausea during pregnancy
It is common to feel nauseous and vomit when you are pregnant. Many people call this morning sickness. Although unpleasant, it is not harmful to you or your baby. There are some things you can do to feel better.
Pain in your pelvic area during pregnancyAtt ha ont i bäckenet under graviditeten - engelskaWhen you are pregnant, the joints in your body become more flexible. You may experience pain in your pelvic area. This is common and usually goes away after childbirth.
Pain in your pelvic area during pregnancy
When you are pregnant, the joints in your body become more flexible. You may experience pain in your pelvic area. This is common and usually goes away after childbirth.
Pre-eclampsiaHavandeskapsförgiftning - engelskaPre-eclampsia is a condition you can get when you are pregnant. It is characterised by high blood pressure. It can affect both you and your baby. You may require rest and medicine to lower your blood pressure.
Pre-eclampsia
Pre-eclampsia is a condition you can get when you are pregnant. It is characterised by high blood pressure. It can affect both you and your baby. You may require rest and medicine to lower your blood pressure.
Braxton Hicks contractions and labour contractionsSammandragningar och värkar - engelskaThe uterus is a muscle. Sometimes during pregnancy, the uterus will tighten and then relax. These are called Braxton Hicks contractions, or false labour. The uterus also tightens and relaxes when it is time to give birth. These contractions are called labour.
Braxton Hicks contractions and labour contractions
The uterus is a muscle. Sometimes during pregnancy, the uterus will tighten and then relax. These are called Braxton Hicks contractions, or false labour. The uterus also tightens and relaxes when it is time to give birth. These contractions are called labour.
Alcohol and pregnancyAlkohol och graviditet - engelskaDo not drink alcohol when you are pregnant. Alcohol contains substances that could harm the baby in the womb. If you find it difficult to stop drinking alcohol, you can get help.
Alcohol and pregnancy
Do not drink alcohol when you are pregnant. Alcohol contains substances that could harm the baby in the womb. If you find it difficult to stop drinking alcohol, you can get help.
Tobacco and pregnancyTobak och graviditet - engelskaIt is harmful to use tobacco when you are pregnant. The harmful substances found in tobacco will travel to the baby in your womb. You should therefore avoid using tobacco when you are pregnant. If you find it difficult to stop, you can get help. Tobacco is found in products such as cigarettes.
Tobacco and pregnancy
It is harmful to use tobacco when you are pregnant. The harmful substances found in tobacco will travel to the baby in your womb. You should therefore avoid using tobacco when you are pregnant. If you find it difficult to stop, you can get help. Tobacco is found in products such as cigarettes.
Visiting the midwifery clinic (barnmorske-mottagningen)Besök på barnmorskemottagningen  - engelskaWhen you are pregnant, you may visit a midwifery clinic. These visits are to see how you and the baby in your womb are doing. You will be given advice and help to prepare for the birth of your child. The visits are free of charge.
Visiting the midwifery clinic (barnmorske-mottagningen)
When you are pregnant, you may visit a midwifery clinic. These visits are to see how you and the baby in your womb are doing. You will be given advice and help to prepare for the birth of your child. The visits are free of charge.
Pregnant or recently given birth? Make your voice heardGravid eller nyss fött barn? Gör din röst hörd - engelskaIf you are pregnant or have recently given birth, you now have the chance to participate in Graviditetsenkäten (the Pregnancy Survey). You will be asked questions about how you felt about the care you received during your pregnancy, after giving birth, and one year after giving birth. The survey also includes questions about your health. Each pregnancy and childbirth experience is unique, so your participation is important to us. Your feedback will help us improve the care.
Pregnant or recently given birth? Make your voice heard
If you are pregnant or have recently given birth, you now have the chance to participate in Graviditetsenkäten (the Pregnancy Survey). You will be asked questions about how you felt about the care you received during your pregnancy, after giving birth, and one year after giving birth. The survey also includes questions about your health. Each pregnancy and childbirth experience is unique, so your participation is important to us. Your feedback will help us improve the care.
1177
–tryggt om din hälsa och vård
På 1177.se får du råd om hälsa och information om sjukdomar och vilka mottagningar du kan kontakta. Logga in för att läsa din journal och göra dina vårdärenden. Ring telefonnummer 1177 för sjukvårdsrådgivning dygnet runt.1177 ger dig råd när du vill må bättre.
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Other Languages
Lätt svenska
Om 1177
E-tjänster
Aktuellt
Kontakt
Press
Digital tillgänglighet
Behandling av personuppgifter
Hantering av kakor
Inställningar för kakor
1177 – en tjänst frånInera.